Here we have an ordinary piece of rope. It’s not one of those magician’s ropes that can mysteriously put itself back together once it's been cut it in half. And it’s not particularly strong or durable. But you might say that it does have special powers, because it’ll demonstrate for us the physics of traveling waves. Ropes and strings are really good for this kind of thing, because when you move them back and forth the movement of your hand travels through the rope as a wave. By observing what happens to this rope when we try different things with it, we’ll be able to see how waves behave. Including, how those waves sometimes disappear completely. How’s that for a magic trick? [Theme Music] This is a typical wave. And waves form whenever there’s a disturbance of some kind. Often, when something about the physical world changes, the information about that disturbance gradually moves outward, away from the source, in every direction. And as the information travels, it makes a wave shape. Think about all the disturbance you cause, for example, when you jump on a trampoline. When you hit the trampoline, the downward push that you create moves the material next to it down a little bit, too. And the same goes for the material next to that, and so on. And while that information is traveling outward, the spot where your feet first hit the trampoline is already recovering, moving upward again, because of the tension force in the trampoline. And that moves the area next to it upward, too. This up-and-down motion gradually ripples outward, covering more and more of the trampoline. And the ripples take the shape of a wave. Waves are made up of peaks, with crests -- the bumps on top -- and troughs -- the bumps on the bottom. They have an amplitude, which is the distance from the peaks to the middle of the wave. They also have a wavelength, which is the distance between crests -- a full cycle of the wave -- and a frequency, which is how many of those cycles pass through a given point every second. Multiply the wavelength by the frequency, and you get the wave’s speed -- how fast it's going. And the wave’s speed only depends on the medium it’s traveling through. That’s why the speed of sound -- which is a wave -- doesn’t depend on the sound itself. It doesn’t matter how loud or quiet it is. It just depends on whether the sound is traveling through, say, air or water. Now, there are four main kinds of waves, and we can use our rope to show the difference between some of them: A pulse wave is what happens when you move the end of the rope back and forth just one time. One lonely crest travels through the rope -- that’s the pulse. Then there’s a continuous wave, which is what happens when you keep moving the rope back and forth. In that case, your hand is acting as an oscillator. Anything that causes an oscillation or vibration can create a continuous wave. Now, things that cause simple harmonic oscillation move in such a way that they create sinusoidal waves -- meaning that if you plotted the waves on a graph, they’d look a lot like the graph of sin(x). But the waves we’ve mainly been talking about so far are transverse waves -- ones in which the oscillation is perpendicular to the direction that the wave is traveling in. When a wave travels along this rope, for example,the peaks are perpendicular to the rope’s length. The same thing was mostly true for the waves that you made on the trampoline: the waves were traveling along its surface horizontally, but the peaks were vertical. But there are also longitudinal waves, where the oscillations happen in the same direction as the wave is moving. In the case of a longitudinal wave, the back-and-forth motion is more of a compression-and-expansion. These are the kinds of waves that you get by compressing and stretching a spring -- and they’re also the kinds by which sound travels, which we’ll talk more about next time. But all waves -- no matter what kind they are -- have something in common: They transport energy as they travel. At a microscopic level, waves occur when the movement of one particle affects the particle next to it. And to make that next particle start moving, there has to be an energy transfer. But how can you tell how much energy a wave has? Well, remember that an object in simple harmonic motion has a total energy of one-half, times the spring constant, times the amplitude of the motion squared. Which means for a wave caused by simple harmonic motion, every particle in the wave will also have that same total energy of (half k A squared). All of this together tells us that a wave’s energy is proportional to its amplitude, squared. In other words, if you double the wave’s amplitude, you get four times the energy. Triple the amplitude, you get nine times the energy. So why is the relationship between amplitude and energy transport so important? Well, the intensity of a wave is related to the energy it transports. More specifically, its intensity is equal to its power, divided by the area it’s spread over and power is energy over time. So, changing the amplitude of a wave can change its energy -- and therefore its intensity -- by the square of the change in amplitude. And this relationship is extremely important for things like figuring out how much damage can be caused by the shockwaves from an earthquake. But waves also get weaker as they spread out, because they’re distributed over more area. A spherical wave, for example -- one that ripples outward in all directions -- will be spread over the surface area of a sphere that gets bigger and bigger, the farther the wave travels. The surface area of a sphere is equal to (4) times (pi) times (its radius squared). So, as a spherical wave moves farther from its source, its intensity will decrease by the square of the distance from it. Two meters away from the source, and the intensity of the wave will be 4 times less than if you were 1 meter away. Three meters away, and it’ll be 9 times less. That’s why being just a little bit farther away from the source of an earthquake can sometimes make a huge difference. Now, let’s go back to the waves we were making with the rope. Suppose you attach one end of the rope to a ring that’s free to move up and down on a rod. Then, with your hand, you send a pulse -- in the form of a crest, rippling along it. When the pulse gets to the end of the rope, the rope slides along the rod. But then, it slides back to where it was. That motion -- the sliding back -- reflects the wave back along the rope, again as a crest. But something totally different happens, if you attach the end of the rope so it’s fixed, and can’t move. Now, if you send a pulse along the rope, it will still be reflected -- but this time, as a trough. The wave was inverted. That’s because, when the pulse reached the fixed end of the rope, it was trying to slide the end of the rope upward. But it couldn’t, because the end of the rope was fixed. So, instead, the rope got yanked downward. And the momentum from that downward movement carried the rope below the fixed end, inverting the wave. Now sometimes, multiple waves can combine. For example: Say you send two identical pulses -- both crests -- along a rope, one from each end. When the two pulses overlap, they’ll combine to make one crest, with a higher amplitude than the original ones. That’s called constructive interference -- the waves build on each other. Now, let’s say you do the same thing again. This time, both waves have the same amplitude, but one’s a crest and the other is a trough. And when they overlap, the rope will be flat. It looks like the waves just disappeared! That’s called destructive interference, when waves cancel each other out. Constructive and destructive interference happen with all kinds of waves -- pulse or continuous, transverse or longitudinal. And sometimes, we can use the effects to our advantage. Noise-canceling headphones, for example, work by analyzing the noise around you and generating a sound wave that destructively interferes with the sound waves from that noise, canceling it out. There’s a lot more to talk about when it comes to the physics of sound, but we’ll save that for next time. Today, you learned about traveling waves, and how their frequency, wavelength, and speed are all connected. We also talked about different types of waves, including pulse, continuous, transverse, and longitudinal waves, and how they all transport energy. Finally, we discussed reflection and interference. Crash Course Physics is produced in association with PBS Digital Studios. You can head over to their channel to check out amazing shows like Physics Girl, Shank's FX, and PBS Space Time. This episode of Crash Course was filmed in the Doctor Cheryl C. Kinney Crash Course Studio with the help of these amazing people and our equally amazing graphics team is Thought Cafe


So what exactly is a wave? A wave is basically a disturbance that can cause matter to oscillate up and down or back and forth with the result of transporting energy from one place to another. Now there's two types of waves that you need to be familiar with. Transverse waves and longitudinal waves. So what exactly is a transverse wave? A good example of a transverse wave is a wave on a string. Let's say if you apply a force and you create a wave on a string. Notice that the wave is traveling towards the right that is in the x direction but the oscillations the string oscillates up and down in the y direction. So as you can see the oscillations are perpendicular to the wave motion and that is a feature of a transverse wave. In a longitudinal wave, the oscillations are in the same direction as the wave motion. A good example of a longitudinal wave is a soundwave. In a soundwave, you have regions of high and low pressure. Let me see how I can draw this. So let's say this shaded region is a region of high pressure and then this lightly shaded region is a region of low pressure. A sound wave is basically a pressure wave. So the pressure oscillates from high to low. When the pressure is high, the molecules in the air are very close together. So you have a region of high density. So that's a region of compression. Where the pressure is low, the molecules are further apart. And so you have a region of low density or an expansion also called a rare action. So a sound wave is a good example of a longitudinal wave. So the wave is moving in the x direction and the oscillations are also in the x direction. As it compresss and expands, it's oscillating in the x direction. So that's an example of a longitudinal wave. Another example of a longitudinal wave is a wave on a spring. If you compress and expand a spring, you can create a longitudinal wave. So as you can see here we have an area of compression and here is an area of expansion. So the wave is traveling towards the right and we have regions of compression and expansion. So the oscillations are in the x direction. So that's another example of a longitudinal wave. Now let's talk about the transverse wave which looks like a sine wave. The peak is known as the crest and the lowest point of the wave is called the trough. The distance between the center and the peak is known as the amplitude. And the distance between successive peaks, let's say from here to here, that is known as the wavelength. That's how long the wave is. This is one cycle from these two positions. So that is one full cycle when the wave goes up back to the middle and then down and back to the middle. So that's one full cycle. Now you need to be familiar with the words period and frequency. The period which is represented by capital T, it's the time it takes for the wave to complete one cycle. So you could find it by taking by dividing the total time by the total number of cycles and you'll get the time per single cycle. The frequency is the reciprocal of the period. The frequency is how many cycles that can occur in 1 second. So it's the number of cycles per unit time and the frequency is 1 / the period. The unit for frequency is hertz or seconds to the minus one. The unit for wavelength is typically in meters. The wavelength times the frequency is equal to the speed. Make sure you know this equation. You'll need it whenever you have to solve problems. So let's focus on the units here. So wavelength is in meters. Frequency is sus or 1 / v is meters/s. That's the speed. Now there's another equation that you need to know. Let's say if you apply a force on a string, you can produce a wave that will travel along the spring. And there's an equation that will help you to calculate the speed of the wave. And here it is. The wave speed is equal to the square root of the tension force that you apply divided by mu where mu is the mass per unit length or also known as the linear density. Mu has the units kilograms per meter. So if you don't want to use the letter U, you can replace it with M / L, which if you want to rearrange that equation, it's the same as the square root of F times the length of the spring, I mean the string divided by the mass. So, here's a question for you. If you increase the tension force, what's going to happen to the wave speed? If the force increases, the velocity will increase. And it makes sense because the force is in the numerator of the equation. Anytime you increase the numerator of a fraction, the value of the entire fraction goes up. Now, if we double the magnitude of the force, how will that affect the wave speed? Will it double, triple, quadruple? All you got to do is plug in two into the equation and everything else that's constant, keep it the same or replace it with one. So if we replace f with two that tells us that the velocity will increase by a factor of the roo of two. Now what if we increase the force by a factor of four? What effect will that have on the speed or the velocity of the wave? The square root of four is two. So if you quadruple the force, the wave speed will increase by a factor of two. Now what about the linear density? If we increase the linear density, what effect will it have on the wave speed? Now because mu is in the bottom of the equation, it's inversely related to the speed. So if you increase the linear density, the speed decreases. And it makes sense. If you have more mass per unit length, there's more inertia. And whenever you have an object with more mass, it's harder to move. Heavy objects tend to move slower. Lighter objects tend to move faster. So if we increase the mass per unit length, we should expect that the wave speed will decrease as long as the tension force remains constant. Now if we increase the linear density by a factor of four, what effect will that have on the wave speed? So if we replace mu with four, we have the square root of 1/4. The square root of 1 is 1 and the square roo of 4 is two. So the speed is going to be 1/2 its original value. So if you increase the tension force by a factor of four, the speed will double. If you increase the linear density by a factor of four, the speed will be 1/2 of its value. Likewise, if you increase the tension force by a factor of 9, the speed will increase by the square root of 9 or it's going to triple in value. And if you increase the linear density by a factor of 9, the speed is going to be 1/3 of its original value. Let's work on some problems. A tension of 1500 newtons is applied to a.5 kg wire. that is 10 meters long and we're given the wavelength as well. What is the speed of the wave? Well, we know that we could find the speed of the wave using this equation. It's the square root of the tension force divided by the linear density. So, let's find the linear density first, which is mass divided by the length of the wire. The mass is.5 kg and the wire is 10 m long. So.5 / 10 is 0.05 kilogram per meter. So that's the linear density. Now we can find the wave speed. The tension force is 1500 / 05. 1500 / 05 is 30,000. and the square root of 30,000 is 173.2. So this is the speed of the wave on the string or on the wire. Now that we have the speed of the wave, let's calculate the frequency. So what equation can we use to find the frequency? If you recall the velocity is equal to the wavelength times the frequency. So the wavelength is the velocity or the speed divided by the frequency. But we have the wavelength. So let's solve for frequency instead. That's what I meant to do. So the frequency is the velocity divided by the wavelength. The velocity is 173.2 m/s. The wavelength is.15 m. So the unit meters will cancel giving you the unit one over a second which is hertz. So it's going to be 173.2 / 15 m. So the frequency of this particular uh wave is 1154.7 hertz. Here's another problem that we could try. The crest of a water wave passes a boat every 2.5 seconds. The wave crests are 10 meters apart. What is the period, frequency, wavelength, and wave speed? So let's draw a picture. So let's draw a water wave. So the distance between wave crests are 10 m. That is the wavelength. So that's the answer to part C. Now notice that the wave passes the boat every 2.5 seconds. The time it takes for a wave to complete one cycle is the period. So the period is 2.5 seconds. So that's the answer to part A. Now the frequency is 1 / the period. So it's 1 over 2.5 which is about 04 hertz. Now how can we find the wave speed? There's two ways in which you can find the wave speed. So let's make some space. The first technique that you can use is the wave speed is equal to the wavelength times the frequency. So the wavelength is 10. The frequency is 04. 10 *4 is 4. So it's 4 m/s. Another equation that you can use is the wavelength divided by the period. This is 10 / 2.5 which will also give you 4 m/s. So you have two different ways to calculate the wave speed. Go ahead and try this problem. What tension force is required to create a wave that has a wavelength of 15 cm and a frequency of 13 hertz using a string that has a linear density of 75 kg per meter. So go ahead and take a minute and work on this problem. So the equation that we need to find the tension force is velocity is equal to the square root of the force / the linear density. So let's go ahead and solve for f. Let's square both sides of the equation. So v ^2 is equal to f / the linear density. So let's multiply both sides by the linear density and then we can get the equation for f. So f is the product of the linear density time the square of the speed. Now we don't know what the wave speed is. So we need another equation to find it. The other equation that we can use is this equation. The wave speed is equal to the wavelength time the frequency. The wavelength is 15 cm. We can convert that to meters by dividing it by 100. 1 meter is 100 cm. So 15 centimeters divided by 100 is.15 m. Let's multiply it by a frequency of 13 hertz. So the wave speed is 15 * 13 and it's about 1.95 m/s. So now we could take this value and plug it into this equation. So it's going to be the linear density which is 75 times the square of the wave speed. 1.95^ squared is about 3.8 and if we multiply that by 75 you should get an answer of 2.85 hertz. I mean not hertz but newtons. So that is the tension force that is required to create a wave with the following uh characteristics. How long will it take a wave traveling from one end of a 85 m long wire to the other end if a tension force of 300 newtons is applied to the 5 kg wire? So we need to find the time it takes to go from one end of the wire to the other end. So let's say this is the wire and this is point A and point B. Now the wire is 85 m long. Once you apply a force and once the wave is created, the wave will continue to move at constant speed. The equation that relates distance, constant speed, and time is this equation. D is equal to VT. We have the distance that the wave travels from one end to the other end. It's the length of the wire, which is 85 m. We're looking for the time. So, what we're missing is the wave speed. So, we can find the wave speed using this equation. But first, let's find the linear density. The linear density is the mass divided by the length. The mass is uh 5 kg and the wire is 85 m long. So if we divide those two numbers, you should get 0 5 882 kg per meter for the linear density. Now let's plug it into this formula. So the speed is going to be the square root of the tension force which is 300 / the linear density. 300 / 05882 that's 5100 and the square root of that number is 71.4. So V is 71.4. 4 m/s. So now using the equation d is equal to vt, we can now find the time. So the distance is 85 m. The speed is 71.4 m/s. And let's solve for t. We can do that by dividing both sides by 71.4. So 85 / 71.4 is equal to 1.19. So, it's going to take 1.19 seconds for the wave to travel from one end of the wire to the other end. Now, let's talk about wave intensity. The intensity of a wave is defined as the power emitted by the source divided by the surface area of a sphere. You can just put a for area if you want. The surface area of a sphere is 4 pi r^ 2. So intensity is equal to the power / 4 pi r 2. The intensity has the units watts per square meter. The unit of power is the watt and the unit for area is always square meters. It could be square feet, square yards, but the standard unit is square meters. Power is defined as work divided by time. And keep in mind work is basically the change in kinetic energy. So you can view power as being energy over time. Work is in the unit jewels and time is measured in seconds. So power is the rate of energy transfer. One watt means that one jewel of energy is being transferred every second. Now since intensity is power / 4i r^ 2 we can say that the intensity is proportional to 1 / r^2 where r is the distance between a point of interest and the source. So let's say if we have a source, we'll call it S and 1 meter from the source, the intensity is measured to be 900 watts per square meter. What is the intensity at a distance of 2 m away from the source? According to this expression, the intensity is inversely related to the square of the radius. So as the distance increases the intensity will decrease. This is known as the inverse square law. So if we double the value of r, if we double the distance, what is the effect on the intensity? Well, if you plug it into the expression, if you replace r for two, since it doubles, 1 / 2 ^2 is 1/4. So, the intensity is going to be 1/4 of its original value. So, that is 1/4 of 900, which is basically 225. Now, what is the intensity 3 m away from the source? What do you think the answer is? So if we triple the distance, what happens to the intensity? 3^2 is 9. So it's going to be 1 over 9 of its original value. 1 9th of 900 is 100. So it decreases by a factor of 9. So if we quadruple the distance, if we increase the distance by a factor of four, the intensity will decrease by a factor of the square of four, which is 16. So it's going to be 1 16 of its original value. Now, there's an equation that can help us to get that answer, but let's talk about how to derive the equation first. So we're going to take the ratio of two intensities. I2 / I1. Now the intensity we know it's the power divided by the surface area. So let's assume that these are the different intensities for the same source. So if we have the source S and if we wish to calculate the intensity at a larger distance away from the source, we can use this equation. So the source is going to have the same power represented by P. However, R is going to change. I1 is going to be P / 4 R1^ 2. The only reason why I have a subscript for R is because R will change in this equation. The R value that corresponds to I1 is different than the R value that corresponds to I2. However, I don't have a subscript for P because the the power of the source remains the same. So, we can cancel P in the equation and we can cancel 4 pi. So this is equal to 1 / r2 2 / 1 / r1^ 2 at which point we can multiply the top and bottom by r1 2. In this case these two will cancel. So therefore we have the equation I2 / I1 is equal to R1^ 2 / R2 2. Now in the last example we said that the intensity was 900 when the distance was 1 meter away from the source. What is the new intensity if we triple the value if we triple the distance to three. Now, we know the answer is 100, but let's use the equation to get that answer. So, we're looking for I2. I1 is 900. R1 is 1 2 and R2 is going to be 3. 1 2 is 1. 3 2 is 9. So, I2 / 900 is 1 / 9. So let's cross multiply. 900 * 1 is 900 and that's equal to 9 * I2. So now we need to divide both sides by 9. So I2 is 900 / 9 or 100. So you can use that equation to find the new intensity at a different distance. If you have another intensity at a certain distance, if you recall from the simple harmonic motion of springs, the elastic potential energy is equal to 12 kx^2 where x is the distance or the displacement of the spring being stretched or compressed from its natural length. Now the maximum displacement is known as the amplitude. The mechanical energy which is the total energy of the system it's 12 k * a^ 2. So therefore we could say that the total energy of the system is proportional to the square of the amplitude. Now we know that intensity is power / area and power you can view it as energy divided by time. So notice that E is on top. So we could say that intensity is proportional to energy which is proportional to the square of the amplitude. So therefore intensity is proportional to the square of the amplitude. So if you increase the amplitude the intensity will increase. If you double the amplitude the intensity will increase by a factor of 4 because 2 ^2 is 4. Now we know that intensity is inversely related to the square of the radius and we have the equation I2 / I1 is equal to R1^ 2 / R2 2 because it's inversely related to it. Notice that these subscripts are flipped. They're opposite of each other. But the intensity is directly related to the square of the amplitude. So the subscripts are going to match. Since we have I2 on top, we're going to have A2 on top. So it's going to be the square of A2 / the square of A1. So therefore, these two are equal to each other. So if we take the square root of both sides, we're going to get this expression. A2 / A1 is equal to R1 / R2. So this tells us that the distance is inversely related to the amplitude. So if we increase the distance by a factor of two, the amplitude will be 12 of the original value. The amplitude is inversely related to r, but not to the square of r. It's inversely related to r to the first power. So if we triple the distance, the amplitude will decrease by a factor of three. If we quadruple the distance, it's going to decrease by a factor of four. If we cut the distance in half, the amplitude will double. If we reduce it to a third of its original value, the amplitude will triple. So, make sure you understand that. So, now let's work on some problems. Let's start with this problem. A lamp emits 500 jew of energy every 4 seconds. What is the rate of energy emitted by the lamp? The rate at which energy is transferred is power. And power is basically the energy divided by time. Work is equal to the energy that's transferred. So it could be work over time or energy over time. So it's 500 jewels / 4 seconds. 500 / 4 is 125. So the lamp emits 125 watts of power. So that means in 1 second it transfers 125 jewels every second. So in 4 seconds it transfers or emits 500 jew of energy. Now what about part B? What is the intensity of the light source 1 meter away from the lamp? So we can use this equation to find that answer. So it's going to be the power which is 125 watts / 4 * 1^ 2. So 125 / 4 pi is 9.95 watts per square meter. Now what about part C? What is the intensity 2 and 3 meters away from the lamp? So let's draw a picture. So let's say this is the light source and we know at a distance of 1 meter the intensity is about 9.95 watts per square meter. So, how much is it 2 meters away? And how much is it 3 m away? As you move away from the light source, the intensity decreases. It's brighter when you're closer to the lamp, but it appears dimmer or less intense when you move away from the lamp. Now according to the inverse square law if we double the distance the intensity is going to be 1/4 of its original value. So we can take 9.95 and just divide it by four. And so you should get an answer of about 2.49. So that's the uh new intensity at a distance of 2 m. Now, what about at a distance of 3 m? So, it's going to be 1 over 3^2, which is 1 over 9. So, it's going to decrease by a factor of 9. So, we need to divide 9.95 by 9. And you should get the answer 1.1 watts per square meter. The intensity of the sun at a certain location on Earth, let's say it's 12,200 watts per square meter, how much solar power can be received on a rectangular plot of land that is 30 m by 40 m. So let's say if here we have a rectangular plot of land and it's 30 m by 40 m and let's say this is the sun and it shines its rays across this uh rectangular plot of land. So, how much solar power can be received? So, we're looking for the power in watts. How can we find the answer? And we have the intensity. So, we know that intensity is power divided by area. In this case, we don't need a surface area of a sphere. What we need is just the area of the region that receives the solar light. In this case, the area of a rectangle. So power is intensity time area. If you multiply both sides by a, you'll get this equation. So what is the area? The area is basically length time width. 40 * 30. 4 * 3 is 12. So 40 * 30 is 1200. You need to add the two zeros. So it's 1,200 square meters. The intensity is 1,200 watts per square meter. And if we multiply that by 1200 m, the unit square meters will cancel giving us the power in watts. So what is 1200 * 1200? 1200 squar is basically It's uh a big number. It's 1,440,000 watts. So that's how much power is being received by this plot of land. So now we can answer the next part. How much energy in jewels can be collected in a muff given a power of 1.44* 44 * 10 6 watt. So if you recall power is energy divided by time. So if we multiply both sides by t we can see that the energy is power multiplied by time. The power is measured in watts or jewels per second. So if we multiply by the unit seconds we can get the energy in jewels. So how many seconds are in a month? Let's find out. So let's start with one month. And we know that there's 30 days in a single month. And in a single day there's 24 hours. And in each hour there's 60 minutes. And in a single minute there's 60 seconds. So the unit months cancel, days cancel, hours will cancel and minutes will cancel. So it's going to be 30 * 24 * 60 * 60. So there's 200 Well, it's actually 2,592,000 seconds in a month. So now we can calculate the energy collected. So it's going to be 1.44 44 * 10 6 watt which is really jewels per second time 2.592* 10 6 seconds. So as you can see the unit seconds will cancel giving us the total energy in jewels. So let's multiply these two numbers. So this is equal to 3.73 * 10 12 jewels. So that's the total amount of energy that will be collected in a month. By the way, 10^ the 6 represents a million. 10^ the 9 represents a billion. 10^ the 12 represents a trillion. So you could say it's about 3.73 trillion jewels will be collected in this plot of land in a single month. The intensity of a light source is 48 watts per square meter at a distance of 30 cm from the source. What is the intensity of the source at a distance of 15 cm? So let's say S represents the source at a distance of 30 cm. The intensity is 48 watts per square meter. So if we move closer, should the intensity go up or down? So let's say if we're at 15 cm, whenever you move closer to the source, the intensity goes up. So it should be higher than 48. So we know that the intensity is inversely related to the distance squared. So if we plug in 12, 1/2^ 2 is 1/4. 1 / 1/4 is 4. So it's going to increase by a factor of 4. 48 * 4 is 192. So this is the answer. But let's use the equation to get the same answer. So it's I2 / I1 which is equal to R1^ 2 / R2 2. So we're looking for the second intensity. The first one is 48. The distance that corresponds to it is uh 30 cm. Now because we have a ratio we don't need to convert our the centimeters into meters. We can keep it in terms of centimeters because those units will cancel. R2 is 15 cm. So how can we solve it? 30^2 is 900 and 15 squared is 225. 900 / 225 is 4. So I2 is I2 / 48 is equal to 4. So if we cross multiply I2 * 1 which is I2 is equal to 4 * 48 which we know it to be 192. So it's 192 watts per square meter. So what does this number mean? This means that if you have a rectangle or rather a square that is 1 meter by 1 meter, it's going to receive 192 Jew of energy every second. So this time we're dealing with amplitude and distance. So let's say this is the source and at a distance of 2 cm let's say this is 2 cm the amplitude is 30. What is the amplitude at a distance of 1 cm? 4 cm and 6 cm. So if you recall the amplitude is inversely related to the radius. So if we double the distance, the amplitude is going to be 1/2 of its original value. So at 4 cm it's going to be 15. And if we triple the distance it's going to be 1/3 of its original value. 1/3 of 30 is 10. And if we cut the distance in half 1 / 1/2 is four. I mean not four, two. So it's going to be twice as large. So if we move closer to the source, the amplitude is going to double. It's going to be 60. Let's use the equation to find the amplitude when it's 6 m away from the source relative to this point. So, we're going to say A1 is 30 and we're looking for A2. R1, the distance that corresponds to A1 is 2 cm. R2 is uh 6 cm. So if we cross multiply 30 * 2 is 60 and that is equal to 6 * a2 60 / 6 is 10. So we get the same answer. Now we're going to see how intensity is related to amplitude and frequency. Let's go over some equations. Now we know that the period of a spring is 2 pi * the square of m / k. And we also know that the mechanical energy is equal to 12 k * the square of the amplitude. So let's solve for k in this equation. Let's do so by squaring both sides of the equation. t ^2 is equal to 4^2 * m / k. Now let's multiply both sides by k. So we have the expression kt t ^2 is equal to 4^2 * m. And if we divide both sides by t ^2, k is 4^2 m over t ^2, which I'm going to rewrite it like this. Frequency is 1 / t. So f2^2 is 1 over t ^2. So therefore we can replace this with f^2. So now we can replace k with 4^ 2 m^2. So e is equal to 12 * 4^ 2 * the mass * the square of the frequency and the square of the amplitude. Half of four is two. So the energy is basically 2^ 2 * the mass * f^2 * a^ 2. Now our goal is to get the intensity in terms of the area and the frequency. So let's focus on m the mass. Mass is density time volume because density is mass / volume. And if we draw let's say a rectangle and let's say this is the cross-sectional area. of the rectangle. The volume of this rectangle is the area of the cross-section, let's call it S, times the length of the rectangle. So it's S * L. So right now we have M is equal to P * S * L. Now we know that d is equal to vt and length and distance they share the same unit which is meters. So we could say l is equal to the velocity of the wave multiplied by the time. So m is equal to p s and we're going to replace l with vt. So we have the equation E is equal to 2i^2 density * the cross-sectional area time the velocity * time F^2 * A 2. Now we know that power is energy / time and the energy is 2 pi^ 2 p sv * t times the square of the frequency and the square of the amplitude. So we could cancel the unit t or the variable t. So now we have the equation of the power of the wave. So now we could find the intensity. Intensity is power divided by area. In this case, the cross-sectional area is represented by the letter S. So it's P / S. So that's 2 2 P * S V F^ 2 A 2 / S. So the intensity of a wave is 2^ 2 time the density of the medium that the wave travels through time the velocity of the wave times the square of the frequency and the square of the amplitude. So as we mentioned before the intensity is proportional to the square of the amplitude. We talked about that earlier but also you could see that the intensity is proportional to the frequency. So I2 / I1 is equal to A2 / A1 but squared. You can also write a relation between intensity and frequency. I2 I1 is equal to F_sub_2 / F_sub_1 but squared as well. Now the last thing that I'm going to talk about in this video is the principle of superposition. I won't spend too much time uh talking about it, but all you need to know is that waves are additive. For example, let's say if we have a wave which has an amplitude of one and another wave which has an amplitude of two. And notice that these two waves are in phase with each other. They both have a positive value at the same time. So if these two meet together they will create a large wave with an amplitude of three which is the sum total of the two individual amplitudes. So this is known as constructive interference. Whenever two waves add and if they add in such a way to increase their amplitude you have constructive interference. Likewise two waves can be out of phase. Let's say if you have wave one which has an amplitude of one and wave two but let's say it's out of phase with wave 1 and let's say it's displacement is -2 when these two add 1 + -2 is negative 1. So you're going to get a reduced wave. That's an example of destructive interference. And if the two waves have equal amplitudes but opposite in value, then they will cancel out producing no wave or a wave with a net amplitude of zero, which is basically nothing. So that's another example of destructive interference.

today we're going to talk about standing waves so what exactly are standard waves and how can they be created let's say if we have a string that is attached to two fixed ends and if we apply a tension force and if we pull the string then release it it's going to create a standard wave pattern now there's different types of standard waves that you can get you might get a standard wave that looks like this you can get a standard wave that looks like this now granted because it's vibrating so fast it might appear to be it might look something like this whereas this one if it's vibrating fast it's going to look something like that now it's called a standing wave because it appears not to move in the x direction some waves you can see them moving along the x direction but the standard wave it doesn't appear to move because it's fixed at both ends thus it's called the standard wave now let's talk about these shapes if you have just one standing wave n is equal to one if you have a pattern with two standard waves n is equal to two if you get three standard waves n is equal to three now each of these standard waves have the same length because if we draw the original picture the length of the string is fixed so even though they don't appear to be the same the length is actually the same just keep that in mind so this is equal to the length of the string o this is also equal to the length of the string it's not drawn to scale and this is l as well now the wavelength and l is associated with this equation l is one half the wavelength this is one full cycle so basically the length of two standard waves is equal to one wavelength so for the second one l is equal to the wavelength the subscript corresponds to the n value it tells you that there's two standard waves in that shape so for the next one where we have three standard waves l is going to equal 3 over 2 times the wavelength so the equation that relates l and the wavelength is this equation l is equal to n times the wavelength divided by two l is equal to n times the wavelength divided by 2. now if you rearrange the equation to solve for the wavelength it's going to be 2 times l divided by n now all of these standard waves they occur at the natural frequencies or at the resonant frequencies of the string so if you use the different material that can affect the standard waves that are produced now let's talk about the frequency let's say that l is 0.5 and let's say the frequency for the the first standard wave pattern is 100 hertz this frequency is known as the fundamental frequency stand in waves they contain multiple frequencies the other frequencies are multiples of the fundamental frequency so f2 which corresponds to this particular standard wave pattern the one that has two standard waves this is equal to 200 hertz this is known as the second harmonic f1 the fundamental frequency is known as the first harmonic f3 this is the third harmonic which is 300 hertz f2 and f3 and anything beyond that are known as overtones so as you can see as the number of standard waves increases the frequency increases so the frequency is proportional to the n value the frequency fn is basically equal to n times f1 we'll talk about how to derive this equation shortly now let's talk about the wavelength as you can see the wavelength is 2l divided by n so 2 times 0.5 which is 1 and when n is 1 that's l i mean the wavelength is going to be 1. so the wavelength that corresponds to the first standard wave pattern in this example is one meter now what about the next one when we have two standard waves when n is two so notice that the frequency increases with the n value but the wavelength is going to decrease because the frequency increased by a factor of two the wavelength is going to decrease by a factor of two so originally it was one meter but now it's going to be one half of a meter now what if we triple the end value what if there's three standard wave patterns notice that the frequency increased by a factor of three so therefore the wavelength is going to decrease by a factor of three so it's going to be one third of its original value so lambda three is going to be one over three or one third of a meter so whenever n increases that is the number of standard waves the wavelength will decrease and the frequency will increase now we said that the natural frequencies can be found from this equation it's n times the fundamental frequency but let's derive this equation the velocity of a wave is equal to the wavelength times the frequency so if we solve for the frequency it's the velocity of the wave or the speed divided by the wavelength so therefore fn is equal to v divided by wavelength n i'm going to separate them into two fractions so basically all i did was i added a subscript to this equation so now we have the equation for the wavelength we said the wavelength is equal to 2 times l divided by n so then 1 over lambda n is the reciprocal of this fraction so that's a n over 2l so let's replace this expression with n over 2l so therefore fn is equal to v over 1 times n over 2l now referring back to this equation lambda 1 is equal to 2l divided by 1 which is simply 2l so therefore we can replace 2l with lambda 1. so fn is equal to v times n divided by lambda 1. now what can we do at this point well let's get rid of this first so as we said before the wavelength times the frequency is equal to the speed and the frequency is the speed divided by the wavelength so f n is v divided by lambda n so f one if we replace the n value with one that's going to be v divided by lambda one so we can rewrite this expression as n times v over lambda 1. so we have this equation f n is equal to n times f1 we can replace this with f1 so there's a lot of equations that we can use but let's write down the important ones let's review it real quick so if you know the fundamental frequency you can find any natural or resonant frequency using this equation where n is the number of standard waves if you know the speed of the wave and the length of the string you can find any harmonic using this equation so if you want to find the first harmonic which is the fundamental frequency n is one if you're looking for the second harmonic which is the first overtone ns2 the third harmonic or the second overtone and a string now we also know that the wave speed is equal to the wavelength times the frequency and if you need to find the wavelength of any standing wave pattern it's 2l divided by n now if you need to find the length of the string you can use this equation it's n times the wavelength divided by 2. so you need to know how many standing waves there are and also the wavelength that corresponds to the standard wave pattern that you see now in another video i went over the wave speed that can be calculated if you apply a tension force on a string the wave speed is equal to the tension force divided by the linear density which is the mass per unit life and of course the square root of that result so that's how you can calculate the wave speed once you have the wave speed you can find the wavelength for the frequency so these are the six main equations that you need to know if you know these six equations you should be fine now there's one more topic that i need to discuss before you go into solving problems let's say if you have this particular standard wave pattern what are the nodes and the antinodes let's say this is the horizontal line the nodes are the locations where the amplitude is equal to zero the antinodes is where maximum displacement occurs so this is an antinode here we have a maximum value here we have a minimum value so that's also an anti-node so for standard wave pattern of let's say an n value of two where we have two standard waves notice that there's three nodes one two three and two antinodes at the anti-node constructive interference occurs since we have the amplitude is at a maximum value at the node the amplitude is at its minimum value it has a value of zero destructive interference occurs at the node so do you need to know all of this for the test maybe maybe not you may be tested on it it may not happen who knows but just in case you do see it on a test you now know what to do how to answer these questions so just remember constructive interference occurs at the anti-node and destructive interference occurs at the node so here's the first question a stanton wave has five loops how many nodes and anti-nodes are present let's begin by drawing a picture so that's one two three four and five so n is equal to five now let's count how many nodes are present one two three four five six notice that the number of nodes is always equal to n plus one so in this case it's six now how many anti-nodes are there one two three four five there's five anti-nodes so the number of antinodes is always equal to the n value in this case five so now you know how to find the number of nodes and antinodes it's either n or n plus one here's another one for you the fundamental frequency of a certain standard wave is 175 hertz calculate the first four harmonics the fundamental frequency is the first harmonic which is f1 and that's 175 hertz now to find the other harmonics we can use the equation f n is equal to n times f1 so if we wish to find the second harmonic it's simply 2 times the fundamental or 2 times 175 which is 350. so that's the second harmonic to find the third harmonic is three times 175 which is 525 and finally the fourth harmonic or the third overtone this is going to be four times 175 and that's 700 hertz so that is it for this question now in this problem we're given the seventh harmonic use that information how can we find the fourth harmonic and the knife harmonic what would you do now the best thing to do is to use the seventh harmonic to find the first harmonic once you have the first one then you could find any harmonic that you need so fn is equal to n times f1 so the seventh harmonic is going to be seven times the first harmonic f7 is 280 hertz so if we divide 280 by seven we can get the first harmonic which is 40. now that we have the value of the fundamental frequency we can find a fourth harmonic which is just going to be four times the first harmonic or four times forty which is a hundred and sixty so that's the value of the fourth harmonic now to find the knife harmonic it's simply 9 times f1 which is 9 times 40. 9 times 4 is 36 so 9 times 40 is going to be 360. so it's 360 hertz a two meter string produces a standard wave with three loops therefore n is equal to three the length of the string is two meters so what is the wavelength the wavelength is basically the distance of two loops now instinctively you can see that the distance of one loop is going to be two meters divided by three or two thirds so for two loops is going to be four thirds three loops six thirds which is two so you can just look at it and see that it's going to be four over three but using the equation we can get the same answer and the equation that we need is the wavelength is equal to 2l divided by n so this is the wavelength of the third harmonic so it's two times l which is two divided by n which is three so it's four over three meters which is one point three meters now that we have the wavelength what is the frequency if the speed of the wave is 45 meters per second the equation that we need is v is equal to the wavelength times the frequency so solving for f the frequency is the speed divided by the wavelength so the speed is 45 and the wavelength is 4 divided by 3. so 45 divided by 4 3 or 1.333 repeating is about 33.75 hertz so that is the frequency and this frequency corresponds to the third harmonic so let's write down what we know we know the wavelength of the third harmonic is about 1.333 meters and the frequency that corresponds to the third harmonic is 33.75 hertz now let's find the fundamental frequency or the frequency that corresponds to the first harmonic so fn is equal to n times f1 therefore f3 is 3 times f1 so 33.75 equals 3 times f1 so we need to divide it by three so the fundamental frequency is 11.25 hertz now what about the fundamental wavelength as you mentioned before whenever you increase the n value the frequency will increase but the wavelength is going to decrease so we can write a similar equation we can say that lambda n is basically lambda 1 divided by n so to find the first wavelength or the the wavelength of the first harmonic it's n times lambda n so it's going to be 3 times 1.333 which is a wavelength of 4 meters now i do want to mention something and that is the speed is constant you can find the speed by multiplying lambda 3 times f3 or by multiplying lambda 1 times f1 so if you take a 1.333 and multiply it by 33.75 you're going to get 45 meters per second and if you multiply 4 times 11.25 you will get the same answer 45 meters per second so as n increases the frequency will increase the wavelength will decrease but the speed will remain constant the wavelength of a standard wave with one loop is 12 meters find the wavelength of the first five harmonics so let's begin so the first wavelength is 12 meters when n is one and we know the wavelength in terms of n is going to be the fundamental wavelength divided by n so wavelength 2 is basically 12 divided by 2 or 6 meters the wavelength of the third harmonic is going to be 12 divided by 3 which is 4 meters the wavelength of the fourth harmonic is 12 divided by 4 which is 3 meters and the wavelength of the fifth harmonic is 12 divided by 5 which is 2.4 meters and that's it for this question go ahead take a minute pause the video and try this one so the wavelength of the fifth harmonic is 1.8 meters so lambda 5 is 1.8 m calculate the wavelength of the knife harmonic so we know lambda n is lambda 1 divided by n so if we rearrange the equation lambda 1 is lambda n times n so let's find the first wavelength or the wavelength that corresponds to the first harmonic so lambda 1 is going to be lambda 5 times 5 if n is 5. so lambda 1 is going to be 1.8 times 5. 1.8 times 5 is 9. so the wavelength that corresponds to the fundamental frequency is 9 meters now to find the wavelength that corresponds to the the knife harmonic we can use this equation so lambda 9 is lambda 1 over 9. so it's 9 meters divided by nine which is one meter so that is the wavelength that corresponds to the knife harmonic a standing wave with a speed of 30 meters per second and five loops has a frequency of 250 hertz what is the length of the string in centimeters so let's make a list of what we have so we have the speed which is 30 meters per second and the standard wave has five loops so n is equal to five and we have the frequency which must be the fifth harmonic so that's 250 hertz so what equation should we use to find the length of the string well we can use this one al is equal to n times lambda divided by two but before we can use that equation we need to find a wavelength so we can use this equation to do that v is equal to lambda times f so if we're using the fifth harmonic then we need to use the wavelength that corresponds to that as well so v is 30 the wavelength that corresponds to the fifth harmonic we're looking for that the frequency of the fifth harmonic is 250. so the wavelength of the fifth harmonic is going to be 30 divided by 250 which is point 12 meters so now we can find l keep in mind n is 5. so l is going to be 5 times the wavelength of the fifth harmonic divided by two so that's five times point 12 divided by 2 which is about 0.3 meters now we want the answer in centimeters 0.3 meters is equal to 30 centimeters if we multiply by a hundred so this is the answer for part a now what about part b if the string has a mass of 40 grams what tension force is required to produce such a wave now let's keep in mind that the length of the string is 0.3 meters now we know that the wave speed can be calculated using this equation it's the square root of the tension force divided by the linear density so let's solve for f in this equation let's square both sides so v squared is going to be equal to f divided by m divided by l so let's multiply both sides by well first before we multiply both sides by anything let's multiply this fraction top and bottom by l let's rearrange the equation so these two will cancel so v squared is equal to f times l divided by m now let's multiply both sides by m so the force times the length is equal to the mass times the square of the velocity so now we can divide both sides by l so the force is the linear density mass over length times v squared we need to convert the mass in grams to kilograms one kilogram is equal to a thousand grams so 40 divided by a thousand is .04 kilograms so f is going to be the mass which is 0.04 kilograms divided by the length which is 0.3 meters times the square of the speed which is 30 meters per second squared 30 squared is 900 times .04 that's 36 divided by 0.3 is 120 so the tension force that's required to produce such wave is 120 newtons go ahead and pause the video work on this problem see if you can get the right answer and then unpause it when you're ready so attention force of 300 newtons was applied to a 0.75 kilogram string that is 5 meters long a standard wave with 5 loops was produced calculate the speed so v is equal to the square root of f the tension force divided by the linear density well let's calculate the linear density first the mass of the string is 0.75 kilograms and the length of the string it's 5 meters long so 0.75 divided by 5 is equal to 0.15 so the linear density is point fifteen kilograms per meter so what this means is that a one meter section of this string has a mass of point fifteen kilograms two meters of this material has a mass of 0.3 kilograms so 5 meters of the string has a mass of 0.75 kilograms so now let's plug it into the equation to find the speed the tension force is three hundred and let's divide it by point fifteen three hundred divided by point fifteen is two thousand and the square root of two thousand is about 44.72 meters per second so that's the answer to part a now what about part b what is the wavelength that corresponds to this particular standard wave what equation can we use to find a wavelength now keep in mind since the standard wave has five loops we have the n value n is five so we're looking for the wavelength that corresponds to the fifth harmonic let's use this equation lambda n is equal to two l divided by n the length of the string is 5 meters long and n is also 5 so these two cancel which means that lambda 5 is 2 meters so that is the wavelength that corresponds to the fifth harmonic which is the answer to part b now what about part c what is the frequency that corresponds to this stannon wave or what is the frequency of the fifth harmonic v is equal to lambda times f so if we're going to use the harmonic i mean the wavelength that corresponds to the fifth harmonic we need to use f5 as well so v is 44.72 the wavelength is two so therefore the frequency must be 44.72 divided by two so the frequency of the fifth harmonic is 22.36 hertz now what is the fundamental frequency and the frequency of the first three overtones we're going to calculate it using two methods or two different equations so we know that fn is equal to n times f1 so f5 is basically five times f1 so the fundamental is basically the fifth harmonic divided by five so if we take 22.36 and divide by five we can see that the fundamental is 4.472 hertz now if we wish to find the first overtone which is the second harmonic it's 4.472 times 2. which is 8.944 the second overtone which is the third harmonic that's 4.472 times 3 and that's 13.41 the third overtone or the fourth harmonic is four point four seven two times four now the other equation that we can use is this one the frequency of any harmonic is the speed of the wave times n divided by two times the length of the string we have the speed and the length of the string so we can use it so if you want to find the first harmonic it's going to be the speed which is what was the speed again i may have to recalculate it because i didn't write it down speed was 44.72 the end value for the first harmonic is one and the length of the string is five meters so it's 44.72 divided by 10 which will give us 4.472 now let's say if we want to find the third overtone which is the fourth harmonic it's going to be the speed 44.72 times an end value of 4 divided by 2l so 44.72 times 4 divided by 10. which will give you 17.88 so that's another equation that you could use if you know the speed and the length of the string here's the last question for today the frequency of the fourth harmonic is 300 hertz that is f4 is 300 and the wavelength of the second harmonic is 2.3 meters so lambda 2 is 2.3 what is the speed of the wave so notice that we can't use this equation because the subscripts don't match they have to share the same end value so how can we find the speed of the wave well something that we can do is we could find the length of the string once we have the length of the string we can find the speed of the wave using this equation so let's calculate the length of the string so using this information n is 2 and lambda 2 is 2.3 divided by 2. so the length of the string is 2.3 the 2's cancel so now we could find the speed let's rearrange this equation let's multiply both sides by 2l so 2l or 2 times 2.3 times f4 is equal to the speed times an n value of four these two must match two times two point three is four point six and f four is 300 so the speed is going to be 4.6 times 300 divided by 4. so the wave speed is about 345 meters per second now is there another way in which we can get the same answer it turns out that there is we can get it by using this equation however the subscripts have to match so we're going to do is find a wavelength and the frequency that corresponds to the first harmonic so fn is equal to n times f1 so f4 is equal to 4 times f1 therefore 300 is 4 times f1 so f1 is 300 divided by 4 so the fundamental frequency is 75 hertz lambda n is lambda 1 divided by n so lambda n times n is lambda one which means lambda two times two is lambda one so two point three times two is four point six which is the wavelength that corresponds to the first harmonic so lambda 1 is 4.6 f1 is 75. if we multiply 4.6 by 75 we get the same answer which is 345 meters per second so that's another way in which you can calculate the wave speed for this particular example so that is it for this video thanks for watching and i really hope that you found it to be educational and useful so make sure you do well on your next exam


in this video we're going to work on some basic problems associated with mechanical waves so here we have a graphical representation of a wave what is the amplitude and wavelength of the wave shown below the amplitude is the distance between the midpoint and the highest point of the wave so it's from zero to three so in this example the amplitude is three meters now to find a wavelength you could find the distance between the crests of the wave or the distance between the troughs or you could find the distance that it takes to complete one cycle so from here to here so how many cycles do we have in this wave so this is one complete cycle that's two cycles and that's three cycles so in three cycles the wave traveled a distance of 10 meters so we got to find the distance it travels in one cycle so that's going to be 10 meters divided by 3. so the wavelength is going to be 3.33 meters so this position is about 3.33 and then here it's 6.67 and then it's going to be 10 meters number two determine the amplitude period and frequency of the mechanical wave shown below so feel free to try this if you want to so the amplitude is the distance between the midpoint or the center line and the crest of the wave so in this example we can clearly see that it's 10 meters so it's basically equal to that number now what about the period and the frequency of the wave the period is the time it takes to make one complete cycle so notice that the five seconds corresponds to the first quarter of the cycle so at the second quarter which is here it's going to be 10 seconds at the third quarter it's 15 seconds and at the full cycle at the end of it it's going to be 20 seconds so the time it takes to make one complete cycle is 20 seconds the frequency is 1 divided by the period so it's going to be 1 over 20. so 1 over 20 will give us a frequency of 0.05 hertz and so that's the answer for this problem so here's another example go ahead and calculate the amplitude of this particular mechanical wave to calculate the amplitude it's going to be the difference between the highest value and the lowest value divided by 2. so let's say h is the highest value l is the lowest value and so it's going to be 12 minus 4 divided by 2. 12 minus 4 is 8 8 divided by 2 is 4. so the amplitude in this example is 4 meters now the midpoint between 4 and 12 is 8. if you add 12 plus 4 you get 16 divided by 2 that's eight and as you mentioned before the amplitude is the distance between the center line and the highest point so 12 minus eight is four and that will give us the same answer now what is the period of this particular wave so notice that the six seconds corresponds to three-fourths of a cycle which would basically stop here at the bottom so if we divide it into three six divided by three is two so the quarter cycle would be at two seconds the half cycle would be at four and so a full cycle would be 8 seconds therefore the period is 8 seconds and now we can calculate the frequency so the frequency is 1 over the period so that's 1 over 8 seconds and 1 over 8 will give us a frequency of 0.125 hertz and so that's how you can calculate the amplitude the frequency the wavelength and the period of a mechanical wave represented by a graph number four a mechanical wave moves in a string with a speed of 125 meters per second if the frequency of the wave is 250 hertz what is the wavelength so how can we find the answer for this problem the speed of a wave is equal to the wavelength times the frequency and so the wave speed is 125 meters per second we're looking for the wavelength and the frequency is 250 hertz so to calculate the wavelength it's simply the wave speed divided by the frequency so 125 divided by 250 is 0.5 so it's 0.5 meters number five a two meter long string with a mass of 0.10 kilograms is plucked with a tension force of 500 newtons what is the linear density of the string the linear density is simply the mass per unit length the mass of the string is 0.10 kilograms and the string is 2 meters long so 0.10 divided by 2 will give us a linear density of kilograms per meter now let's draw a picture so let's say if we have two boundaries and a string is in between them if we apply a force or tension force on the string we can create a wave pattern on a string and so you might get a wave and what we need to do in part b is calculate how fast that wave is moving if we pluck it with a given tension force the velocity of the wave is equal to the square root of the tension force divided by the linear density the mass per unit length so in this example the tension force is 500 newtons and the linear density is 0.05 so 500 divided by 0.05 that's 10 000. if we take the square root of that that will give us a speed of 100 meters per second so that's the answer to part b part c determine the frequency of the wave if it has a wavelength of 0.25 meters we know that the wave speed is the wavelength times the frequency so the frequency has to be the wave speed divided by the wavelength so it's going to be 100 meters per second divided by a wavelength of 0.25 meters and so that's going to give us a frequency of 400 hertz and that's the answer to part c number six a standard wave is moving at 130 meters per second on a 2.5 meter long string what is the fundamental frequency of this wave feel free to try if you want to to calculate the fundamental frequency you can use this equation it's nv over 2l now n is one when dealing with the fundamental frequency so it's going to be 1 times the wave speed which is 130 meters per second and the length of the string is 2.5 meters so 2 times 2.5 is 5 so it's 130 over 5. so the fundamental frequency is 26 hertz so that's the answer to part a now part b what is the frequency of the third harmonic that's going to be f3 the frequency of the third harmonic is simply three times the fundamental frequency the fundamental frequency being f1 the second harmonic is f2 the third harmonic f3 fourth harmonic f4 and so forth so the third harmonic is simply three times the fundamental frequency or three times 26 which is 78 hertz now let's move on to part c how many nodes and antinodes are present in the third in the wave of the third harmonic so the first harmonic looks like this so that's f1 the second harmonic looks like that that's f2 the third harmonic let me draw that better that's the third harmonic so these are the nodes the third harmonic has four nodes the antinodes are where you have the maximum displacement or that's where constructive interference occurs so there's three anti-nodes the nodes occur with destructive interference that's when the amplitude is zero so the number of nodes is equal to n plus one and the number of antinodes is equal to n so for the third harmonic n is three notice that the antinodes in n are the same and the number of nodes is four it's n plus one so if we're dealing with the seventh harmonic the number of nodes is going to be seven plus one it's gonna be eight the number of antinodes which i'm going to know a n that's gonna be seven now let's move on to part d what is the frequency of the fifth overtone you need to know that the first overtone i'm just going to put ot for overtone the first overtone corresponds to the second harmonic the second overtone corresponds to the third harmonic so the fifth overtone corresponds to the sixth harmonic the frequency of the six harmonic is going to be six times the fundamental frequency or six times 26 hertz and so it's going to be 156 hertz so that's the frequency of the fifth overtone which is the sixth harmonic now what is the wavelength of the third overtone so the third overtone represents the fourth harmonic so the formula that we can use to calculate the wavelength of the fourth harmonic is this equation it's going to be 2l over n so it's twice the length of the string two times two point five divided by four so it's five over four so the wavelength of the fourth harmonic or the third overtone is 1.25 meters now there's another way in which we can calculate it so we could find the frequency of the four harmonic which is going to be four times 26 and that's 104 hertz and then we could use this equation the speed is the wavelength times the frequency so the wavelength that is the the wavelength for the fourth harmonic is going to be the speed divided by the frequency of the four harmonic so the speed is 130 and the frequency of the fourth harmonic is 104 hertz so if you take 130 and divided by 104 it will give you the same answer of 1.25 meters and so that's it for this video you