Addition Rule for Probability | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 10:42)Links to an external site. 

Let's say I have a bag. And in that bag-- I'm going to put some green cubes in that bag. And in particular, I'm going to put eight green cubes. I'm also going to put some spheres in that bag. Let's say I'm going to put nine spheres. And these are the green spheres. I'm also going to put some yellow cubes in that bag. I'm going to put five of those. And I'm also going to put some yellow spheres in this bag. And let's say I put seven of those. I'm going to stick them all in this bag. And then I'm going to shake that bag. And I'm going to pour it out. And I'm going to look at the first object that falls out of that bag. And what I want to think about in this video is what are the probabilities of getting different types of objects? So for example, what is the probability of getting a cube of any color? What is the probability of getting a cube? Well, to think about that we should think about what-- or this is one way to think about it-- what are all of the equally likely possibilities that might pop out of the bag? Well, we have 8 plus 9 is 17. 17 plus 5 is 22. 22 plus 7 is 29. So we have 29 objects. There are 29 objects in the bag. Did I do that right? This is 14, yup 29 objects. So let's draw all of the possible objects. I'll represent it as this big area right over here. So these are all the possible objects. There are 29 possible objects. So there's 29 equal possibilities for the outcome of my experiment of seeing what pops out of the bag, assuming that it's equally likely for a cube or a sphere to pop out first. And how many of them meet our constraint of being a cube? Well, I have eight green cubes, and I have five yellow cubes. So there are a total of 13 cubes. So let me draw that set of cubes. So there's 13 cubes. We could draw it like this-- there are 13 cubes. This right here is the set of cubes, this area. And I'm not drawing it exact. I'm approximating. It represents the set of all the cubes. So the probability of getting a cube is the number of events that meet our criteria. So there's 13 possible cubes that have an equally likely chance of popping out, over all of the possible equally likely events, which are 29. That includes the cubes and the spheres. Now let's ask a different question. What is the probability of getting a yellow object, either a cube or a sphere? So once again, how many things meet our conditions here? Well, we have 5 plus 7. There's 12 yellow objects in the bag. So we have 29 equally likely possibilities. I'll do it in that same color. We have 29 equally likely possibilities. And of those, 12 meet our criteria. So let me draw 12 right over here. I'll do my best attempt. So let's say it looks something like-- so the set of yellow objects. There are 12 objects that are yellow. So the 12 that meet our conditions are 12, over all the possibilities-- 29. So the probability of getting a cube-- 13 29ths, probability of getting a yellow-- 12 29ths. Now let's ask something a little bit more interesting. What is the probability of getting a yellow cube? So I'll put it in yellow. So we care about the color, now. So this thing is yellow. What is the probability of-- or as my son would say, "lello." What is the probability of getting a yellow cube? Well, there's 29 equally likely possibilities. And of those 29 equally likely possibilities, 5 of those are yellow cubes, or "lello" cubes, five of them. So the probability is 5 29ths. And where would we see that on this Venn diagram that I've drawn? This Venn diagram is just a way to visualize the different probabilities. And they become interesting when you start thinking about where sets overlap, or even where they don't overlap. So here we are thinking about things that are members of the set yellow. So they're in this set, and they are cubes. So this area right over here-- that's the overlap of these two sets. So this area right over here-- this represents things that are both yellow and cubes, because they are inside both circles. So this right over here-- let me rewrite it right over here. So there's five objects that are both yellow and cubes. Now let's ask-- and this is probably the most interesting thing to ask-- what is the probability of getting something that is yellow or or a cube, a cube of any color? The probability of getting something that is yellow or a cube of any color-- well, we still know that the denominator here is going to be 29. These are all of the equally likely possibilities that might jump out of the bag. But what are the possibilities that meet our conditions? Well, one way to think about it is, well, the probability-- there's 12 things that would meet the yellow condition. So that would be this entire circle right over here-- 12 things that meet the yellow condition. So this right over here is 12. This is the number of yellow. That is 12. And then to that, we can't just add the number of cubes, because if we add the number of cubes, we've already counted these 5. These 5 are counted as part of this 12. One way to think about it is there are 7 yellow objects that are not cubes. Those are the spheres. There are 5 yellow objects that are cubes. And then there are 8 cubes that are not yellow. That's one way to think about. So when we counted this 12-- the number of yellow-- we counted all of this. So we can't just add the number of cubes to it, because then we would count this middle part again. So then we have to essentially count cubes, the number of cubes, which is 13. So the number of cubes, and we'll have to subtract out this middle section right over here. Let me do this. So subtract out the middle section right over here. So minus 5. So this is the number of yellow cubes. It feels weird to write the word yellow in green. The number of yellow cubes-- or another way to think about it-- and you could just do this math right here. 12 plus 13 minus 5 is 20. Did I do that right? 12 minus, yup, it's 20. So that's one way. You just get this is equal to 20 over 29. But the more interesting thing than even the answer of the probability of getting that, is expressing this in terms of the other probabilities that we figured out earlier in the video. So let's think about this a little bit. We can rewrite this fraction right over here. We can rewrite this as 12 over 29 plus 13 over 29 minus 5 over 29. And this was the number of yellow over the total possibilities. So this right over here was the probability of getting a yellow. This right over here was the number of cubes over the total possibilities. So this is plus the probability of getting a cube. And this right over here is the number of yellow cubes over the total possibilities. So this right over here was minus the probability of yellow, and a cube. I'm not going to write it that way. Minus the probability of yellow-- I'll write yellow in yellow-- yellow and a cube. And so what we've just done here-- and you could play with the numbers. The numbers I just used as an example right here to make things a little bit concrete. But you can see this is a generalizable thing. If we have the probability of one condition or another condition-- so let me rewrite it-- the probability-- and I'll just write it a little bit more generally here. This gives us an interesting idea. The probability of getting one condition of an object being a member of set a, or a member of set b is equal to the probability that it is a member of set a, plus the probability that is a member of set b, minus the probability that is a member of both. And this is a really useful result. I think sometimes it's called the addition rule of probability. But I want to show you that it's a completely common-sense thing. The reason why you can't just add these two probabilities is because they might have some overlap. There's a probability of getting both. And if you just added both of these, you would be double counting that overlap, which we've already seen earlier in this video. So you have to subtract one version of the overlap out so you are not double counting it. I'll throw another one other idea out. Sometimes, you have possibilities that have no overlap. So let's say this is the set of all possibilities. And let's say this is the set that meets condition a and let me do this in a different color. And let's say that this is the set that meets condition b. So in this situation, there is no overlap. There's no way-- nothing is a member of both sets, a and b. So in this situation, the probability of a and b is 0. There is no overlap. And these type of conditions, or these two events, are called mutually exclusive. So if events are mutually exclusive, that means that they both cannot happen at the same time. There's no event that meets both of these conditions. And if things are mutually exclusive, then you can say the probability of a or b is the probability of a plus b, because this thing is 0. But if things are not mutually exclusive, you would have to subtract out the overlap. And probably the best way to think about it is to just always realize that you have to subtract out the overlap. And obviously if something is mutually exclusive, the probability of getting a and b is going to be 0.




Probability with Playing Cards and Venn Diagrams | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 10:01)Links to an external site. 

Let's do a little bit of probability with playing cards. And for the sake of this video, we're going to assume that our deck has no jokers in it. You could do the same problems with the joker, you'll just get slightly different numbers. So with that out of the way, let's first just think about how many cards we have in a standard playing deck. So you have four suits, and the suits are the spades, the diamonds, the clubs, and the hearts. You have four suits and then in each of those suits you have 13 different types of cards-- and sometimes it's called the rank. You have the ace, then you have the two, the three, the four, the five, the six, seven, eight, nine, ten, and then you have the Jack, the King, and the Queen. And that is 13 cards. So for each suit you can have any of these-- you can have any of the suits. So you could have a Jack of diamonds, a Jack of clubs, a Jack of spades, or a Jack of hearts. So if you just multiply these two things-- you could take a deck of playing cards, take out the jokers and count them-- but if you just multiply this you have four suits, each of those suits have 13 types. So you're going to have 4 times 13 cards, or you're going to have 52 cards in a standard playing deck. Another way you could have said, look, there's 13 of these ranks, or types, and each of those come in four different suits-- 13 times 4. Once again, you would have gotten 52 cards. Now, with that of the way, let's think about the probabilities of different events. So let's say I shuffle that deck. I shuffle it really, really well and then I randomly pick a card from that deck. And I want to think about what is the probability that I pick a Jack. Well, how many equally likely events are there? Well, I could pick any one of those 52 cards. So there's 52 possibilities for when I pick that card. And how many of those 52 possibilities are Jacks? Well you have the Jack of spades, the Jack of diamonds, the Jack of clubs, and the Jack of hearts. There's four Jacks in that deck. So it is 4 over 52-- these are both divisible by 4-- 4 divided by 4 is 1, 52 divided by 4 is 13. Now, let's think about the probability. So I'll start over. I'm going to put that Jack back and I'm going to reshuffle the deck. So once again, I still have 52 cards. So what's the probability that I get a hearts? What's the probability that I just randomly pick a card from a shuffled deck and it is a heart? Well, once again, there's 52 possible cards I could pick from. 52 possible, equally likely events that we're dealing with. And how many of those have our hearts? Well, essentially 13 of them are hearts. For each of those suits you have 13 types. So there are 13 hearts in that deck. There are 13 diamonds in that deck. There are 13 spades in that deck. There are 13 clubs in that deck. So 13 of the 52 would result in hearts, and both of these are divisible by 13. This is the same thing as 1/4. One in four times I will pick it out, or I have a one in four probability of getting a hearts when I randomly pick a card from that shuffled deck. Now, let's do something that's a little bit more interesting, or maybe it's a little obvious. What's the probability that I pick something that is a Jack-- I'll just write J-- and it is a hearts? Well, if you are reasonably familiar with cards you'll know that there's actually only one card that is both a Jack and a heart. It is literally the Jack of hearts. So we're saying, what is the probability that we pick the exact card, the Jack of hearts? Well, there's only one event, one card, that meets this criteria right over here, and there's 52 possible cards. So there's a one in 52 chance that I pick the Jack of hearts-- something that is both a Jack and it's a heart. Now, let's do something a little bit more interesting. What is the probability-- you might want to pause this and think about this a little bit before I give you the answer. What is the probability of-- so I once again, I have a deck of 52 cards, I shuffled it, randomly pick a card from that deck-- what is the probability that that card that I pick from that deck is a Jack or a heart? So it could be the Jack of hearts, or it could be the Jack of diamonds, or it could be the Jack of spades, or it could be the Queen of hearts, or it could be the two of hearts. So what is the probability of this? And this is a little bit more of an interesting thing, because we know, first of all, that there are 52 possibilities. But how many of those possibilities meet these conditions that it is a Jack or a heart. And to understand that, I'll draw a Venn diagram. Sounds kind of fancy, but nothing fancy here. So imagine that this rectangle I'm drawing here represents all of the outcomes. So if you want, you could imagine it has an area of 52. So this is 52 possible outcomes. Now, how many of those outcomes result in a Jack? So we already learned, one out of 13 of those outcomes result in a Jack. So I could draw a little circle here, where that area-- and I'm approximating-- represents the probability of a Jack. So it should be roughly 1/13, or 4/52, of this area right over here. So I'll just draw it like this. So this right over here is the probability of a Jack. There's four possible cards out of the 52. So that is 4/52, or one out of 13. Now, what's the probability of getting a hearts? Well, I'll draw another little circle here that represents that. 13 out of 52 cards represent a heart. And actually, one of those represents both a heart and a Jack. So I'm actually going to overlap them, and hopefully this will make sense in a second. So there's actually 13 cards that are a heart. So this is the number of hearts. And actually, let me write this top thing that way as well. It makes it a little bit clearer that we're actually looking at the number of Jacks. And of course, this overlap right here is the number of Jacks and hearts-- the number of items out of this 52 that are both a Jack and a heart-- it is in both sets here. It is in this green circle and it is in this orange circle. So this right over here-- let me do that in yellow since I did that problem in yellow-- this right over here is a number of Jacks and hearts. So let me draw a little arrow there. It's getting a little cluttered, maybe I should draw a little bit bigger number. And that's an overlap over there. So what is the probability of getting a Jack or a heart? So if you think about it, the probability is going to be the number of events that meet these conditions, over the total number events. We already know the total number of events are 52. But how many meet these conditions? So it's going to be the number-- you could say, well, look at the green circle right there says the number that gives us a Jack, and the orange circle tells us the number that gives us a heart. So you might want to say, well, why don't we add up the green and the orange, but if you did that, you would be double counting, Because if you add it up-- if you just did four plus 13-- what are we saying? We're saying that there are four Jacks and we're saying that there are 13 hearts. But in both of these, when we do it this way, in both cases we are counting the Jack of hearts. We're putting the Jack of hearts here and we're putting the Jack of hearts here. So we're counting the Jack of hearts twice, even though there's only one card there. So you would have to subtract out where they're common. You would have to subtract out the item that is both a Jack and a heart. So you would subtract out a 1. Another way to think about it is, you really want to figure out the total area here. And let me zoom in-- and I'll generalize it a little bit. So if you have one circle like that, and then you have another overlapping circle like that, and you wanted to figure out the total area of both of these circles combined, you would look at the area of this circle. And then you could add it to the area of this circle. But when you do that, you'll see that when you add the two areas, you're counting this area twice. So in order to only count that area once, you have to subtract that area from the sum. So if this area has A, this area is B, and the intersection where they overlap is C, the combined area is going to be A plus B-- -- minus where they overlap-- minus C. So that's the same thing over here, we're counting all the Jacks, and that includes the Jack of hearts. We're counting all the hearts, and that includes the Jack of hearts. So we counted the Jack of hearts twice, so we have to subtract 1 out of that. This is going to be 4 plus 13 minus 1, or this is going to be 16/52. And both of these things are divisible by 4. So this is going to be the same thing as, divide 16 by 4, you get 4. 52 divided by 4 is 13. So there's a 4/13 chance that you'd get a Jack or a hearts.




Compound Probability of Independent Events | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 5:59)Links to an external site. 

Let's think about the situation where we have a completely fair coin here. So let me draw it. I'll assume it's a quarter or something. Let's see. So this is a quarter. Let me draw my best attempt at a profile of George Washington. Well, that'll do. So it's a fair coin. And we're going to flip it a bunch of times and figure out the different probabilities. So let's start with a straightforward one. Let's just flip it once. So with one flip of the coin, what's the probability of getting heads? Well, there's two equally likely possibilities. And the one with heads is one of those two equally likely possibilities, so there's a 1/2 chance. Same thing if we were to ask what is the probability of getting tails? There are two equally likely possibilities, and one of those gives us tails, so 1/2. And this is one thing to realize. If you take the probabilities of heads plus the probabilities of tails, you get 1/2 plus 1/2, which is 1. And this is generally true. The sum of the probabilities of all of the possible events should be equal to 1. And that makes sense, because you're adding up all of these fractions, and the numerator will then add up to all of the possible events. The denominator is always all the possible events. So you have all the possible events over all the possible events when you add all of these things up. Now let's take it up a notch. Let's figure out the probability of-- I'm going to take this coin, and I'm going to flip it twice-- the probability of getting heads and then getting another heads. There's two ways to think about it. One way is to just think about all of the different possibilities. I could get a head on the first flip and a head on the second flip, head on the first flip, tail on the second flip. I could get tails on the first flip, heads on the second flip. Or I could get tails on both flips. So there's four distinct, equally likely possibilities. And one way to think about is on the first flip, I have two possibilities. On the second flip, I have another two possibilities. I could have heads or tails, heads or tails. And so I have four possibilities. For each of these possibilities, for each of these two, I have two possibilities here. So either way, I have four equally likely possibilities. And how many of those meet our constraints? Well, we have it right over here, this one right over here-- having two heads meets our constraints. And there's only one of those possibilities. I've only circled one of the four scenarios. So there's a 1/4 chance of that happening. Another way you could think about this-- and this is because these are independent events. And this is a very important idea to understand in probability, and we'll also study scenarios that are not independent. But these are independent events. What happens in the first flip in no way affects what happens in the second flip. And this is actually one thing that many people don't realize. There's something called the gambler's fallacy, where someone thinks if I got a bunch of heads in a row, then all of a sudden, it becomes more likely on the next flip to get a tails. That is not the case. Every flip is an independent event. What happened in the past in these flips does not affect the probabilities going forward. The fact you got a heads on the first flip in no way affects that you got a heads on the second flip. So if you can make that assumption, you could say that the probability of getting heads and heads, or heads and then heads, is going to be the same thing as the probability of getting heads on the first flip times the probability of getting heads on the second flip. And we know the probability of getting heads on the first flip is 1/2 and the probability of getting heads on the second flip is 1/2. And so we have 1/2 times 1/2, which is equal to 1/4, which is exactly what we got when we tried out all of the different scenarios, all of the equally likely possibilities. Let's take it up another notch. Let's figure out the probability-- and we've kind of been ignoring tails, so let's pay some attention to tails. The probability of getting tails and then heads and then tails-- so this exact series of events. So I'm not saying in any order two tails and a head. I'm saying this exact order-- the first flip is a tails, second flip is a heads, and then third flip is a tail. So once again, these are all independent events. The fact that I got tails on the first flip in no way affects the probability of getting a heads on the second flip. And that in no way affects the probability of getting a tails on the third flip. So because these are independent events, we could say that's the same thing as the probability of getting tails on the first flip times the probability of getting heads on the second flip times the probability of getting tails on the third flip. And we know these are all independent events, so this right over here is 1/2 times 1/2 times 1/2. 1/2 times 1/2 is 1/4. 1/4 times 1/2 is equal to 1/8, so this is equal to 1/8. And we can verify it. Let's try out all of the different scenarios again. So you could get heads, heads, heads. You could get heads, heads, tails. You could get heads, tails, heads. You could get heads, tails, tails. You can get tails, heads, heads. This is a little tricky sometimes. You want to make sure you're being exhaustive in all of the different possibilities here. You could get tails, heads, tails. You could get tails, tails, heads. Or you could get tails, tails, tails. And what we see here is that we got exactly eight equally likely possibilities. We have eight equally likely possibilities. And the tail, heads, tails is exactly one of them. It is this possibility right over here. So it is 1 of 8 equally likely possibilities.






Dependent Probability Introduction | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 6:37)Links to an external site. 


Let's imagine ourselves in some type of a strange casino with very strange games. And you walk up to a table, and on that table there is an empty bag. And the guy who runs the table says, look, I've got some marbles here, 3 green marbles, 2 orange marbles. And I'm going to stick them in the bag. And he literally sticks them into the empty bag to show you that it's truly 3 green marbles and 2 orange marbles. And he says, the game that I want you to play, or if you choose to play, is you're going to look away-- stick your hand in this bag, the bag is not transparent-- feel around the marbles. All the marbles feel exactly the same. And if you're able to pick 2 green marbles, if you're able to take 1 marble out of the bag, it's green. You put it down on the table. Then put your hand back in the bag, and take another marble. And if that one's also green, then you're going to win the prize. You're going to win $1 if you get 2 greens. If you get 2 greens, you're going to win $1. You say, well, this sounds like an interesting game. How much does it cost to play? And the guy tells you, it is $0.35 to play, so obviously a fairly low stakes casino. So my question to you is, would you want to play this game? And don't put the fun factor into it. Just economically, does it make sense for you to actually play this game? Well, let's think through the probabilities a little bit. So, first of all, what's the probability that the first marble you pick is green? Actually, let me just write, first green, probability first green. Well, the total possible outcomes-- there's 5 marbles here, all equally likely. So there's 5 possible outcomes. 3 of them satisfy your event that the first is green. So there's a 3/5 probability that the first is green. So you have a 3/5 chance, 3/5 probability I should say, that after that first pick you're kind of still in the game. Now, what we really care about is your probability of winning the game. You want the first to be green, and the second green. Well, let's think about this a little bit. What is the probability that the first is green-- first, I'll just write g for green-- and the second is green? Now, you might be tempted to say, oh, well, maybe the second being green is the same probability. It's 3/5. I can just multiply 3/5 times 3/5, and I'll get 9/25, seems like a pretty straightforward thing. But the realization here is what you do with that first green marble. You don't take that first green marble out, look at it, and put it back in the bag. So when you take that second pick, the number of green marbles that are in the bag depends on what you got on the first pick. Remember, we take the marble out. If it's a green marble, whatever marble it is, at whatever after the first pick, we leave it on the table. We are not replacing it. So there's not any replacement here. So these are not independent events. Let me make this clear, not independent. Or in particular, the second pick is dependent on the first. Dependent on the first pick. If the first pick is green, then you don't have 3 green marbles in a bag of 5. If the first pick is green, you now have 2 green marbles in a bag of 4. So the way that we would refer to this, the probability of both of these happening, yes, it's definitely equal to the probability of the first green times-- now, this is kind of the new idea-- the probability of the second green given-- this little line right over here, just a straight up vertical line, just means given-- given that the first was green. Now, what is the probability that the second marble is green given that the first marble was green? Well, we drew the scenario right over here. If the first marble is green, there are 4 possible outcomes, not 5 anymore, and 2 of them satisfy your criteria. So 2 of them satisfy your criteria. So the probability of the first marble green being green and the second marble being green, is going to be the probability that your first is green, so it's going to be 3/5, times the probability that the second is green, given that the first was green. Now you have 1 less marble in the bag, and we're assuming that the first pick was green, so you'll only have 2 green marbles left. And so what does this give us for our total probability? Let's see, 3/5 times 2/4. Well, 2/4 is the same thing as 1/2. This is going to be equal to 3/5 times 1/2, which is equal to 3/10. Or we could write that as 0.30, or we could say there's a 30% chance of picking 2 green marbles, when we are not replacing. So given that, let me ask you the question again. Would you want to play this game? Well, if you played this game many, many, many, many, many times, on average you have a 30% chance of winning $1. And we haven't covered this yet, but so your expected value is really going to be 30% times $1-- this gives you a little bit of a preview-- which is going to be $0.30 30% chance of winning $1. You would expect on average, if you were to play this many, many, many times, that playing the game is going to give you $0.30. Now, would you want to give someone $0.35 to get, on average, $0.30? No, you would not want to play this game. Now, one thing I will let you think about is, would you want to play this game if you could replace the green marble, the first pick. After the first pick, if you could replace the green marble, would you want to play the game in that scenario?










Count Outcomes Using Tree Diagram | Statistics and Probability | Khan Academy (YouTube - 4:30)Links to an external site. 

Let's say that I've just won some type of contest at a car dealership, and they're going to give me a brand new car. And in deciding which car they give me, they're first going to randomly select the engine type. So the engine will come in two different varieties. It'll either be a four-cylinder or a six-cylinder engine. And they're literally just going to flip a fair coin to decide whether I get a four-cylinder engine or a six-cylinder engine. Then they're going to pick the color. And there's four different colors that the cars come in. So I'll write color in a neutral color. So you could get a red car. That's not red. Let me do that in actual red color, or close to red. You could get a red car, you could get a blue car, you could get a green car, or you could get a white car. And once again, they're going to have the red, blue, green, and white in little slips of paper in a bowl and they're just going to pick one of them out. So all of these are equally likely. So given this, that they're just going to flip a coin to pick the engine, and that all of these, the colors all equally likely, I want to think about the probability of getting a six-cylinder white car. So I encourage you to pause the video and think about it on your own. Well, one way to think about this is, well, what are all the equally likely possible outcomes? And then which of those match six-cylinder white car? Well, first, we could think about the engine decision. We're either going to get a four-cylinder engine. So the first decision is the engine. You could view it that way. You're either going to get a four-cylinder engine, or you're going to get a six-cylinder engine. Now, if you got a four-cylinder engine, you're either going to get red, blue, green, or white. And if you've got a six-cylinder engine, once again, you're either going to get red, blue-- I think you see where this is going. That's not blue. Red, blue, green, or white. So how many possible outcomes are there? Well, you could just count. You could kind of say, the leaves of this tree diagram-- one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight possible outcomes. And that makes sense. You have two possible engines times four possible colors. You see that right here-- one group of four, two groups of four. So this outcome right here is a four-cylinder blue car. And this outcome over here is a six-cylinder green car. So there's eight equally possible outcomes. And which outcome matches the one that we, I guess, are hoping for, the white six-cylinder car? Well, that's this one right over here. It's one of eight equally likely events. So we have a 1/8 probability. This wasn't the only way that we could have drawn the tree diagram. We could have thought about color as the first row of this tree. So we could have said, look, we're either going to get a-- let me do it down here, so I have a little more space-- we're either going to get a red, a blue-- that's not blue. Changing colors is the hard part. A blue, a green, or a white car. And then for each of those colors, I'm either going to get a four-cylinder or a six-cylinder engine. So it's either going to be four or six. This would be another way of drawing a tree diagram to represent all of the outcomes. So what is this outcome right over here? This is a six-cylinder red car. This is a four-cylinder blue car right over here. Which is the one that we care about? White six-cylinder car? That's this outcome right over here. Once again, you see you have eight equally likely outcomes. And that happens because you have four possible colors. And for each of those four possible colors, you have two different engine types.






Combination Formula | Probability and Combinatorics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 11:16)Links to an external site. 


- The first time you're exposed to permutations and combinations it takes a little bit to get your brain around it, so I think it never hurts to do as many examples. But each incremental example I'm gonna review what we've done before, but hopefully go a little bit further. So let's just take another example. This is in the same vein. In videos after this I'll start using other examples, other than just people sitting in chairs, but let's just stick with it for now. Let's say we have six people again. Person A, B, C, D, E, and F, so we have six people. Now let's put them into four chairs. We can go through this fairly quickly, one, two, three, four chairs. We've seen this show multiple times. How many ways, how many permutations are there of putting these six people into four chairs? Well the first chair, if we seat them in order, we might as well, we can say well there'd be six possibilities here. For each of those six possibilities there would be five possibilities of who we'd put here, because one person's already sitting down. For each of these 30 possibilities of seating these first two people, there'd be four possibilities of who we put in chair number three. Then for each of these, what is this, 120 possibilities there would be three possibilities of who we put in chair four. This six times five times four times three is the number of permutations. We've seen in one of the early videos on permutations that, when we talk about the permutation formula, one way to write this, if we wanted to write in terms of factorial, we could write this as six factorial, six factorial which is going to be equal to six times five times four times three times two times one, but we wanna get rid of the two times one. We're gonna divide that, we're gonna divide that. Now what's two times one? Two times one is two factorial. Where do we get that? We wanted the first four, the first four factors of six factorial. That's where the four came from. We wanted the first four factors, so the way we got two is we said six minus four. Six minus four, that's gonna give us the number that we wanna get rid of. We wanted to get rid of two or the factors we wanna get rid of. That's going to give us two factorial. If we do six minus four factorial. That's going to give us two factorial, which is two times one. Then these cancel out, and we are all set. This is one way, I put in the particular numbers here, but this is a review of the permutations formula, where people say, "Hey, if I'm saying n, "if I'm taking n things, then I want to figure out "how many permutations are there "of putting them into let's say k spots, "it's going to be equal to n factorial "over n minus k factorial." That's exactly what we did over here, where six is n and k, or four is k. Four is k. Actually let me color code the whole thing so that we see the parallel. All of that is review. Then we went into the world of combinations. In the world of combinations, we said permutations make a difference between who's sitting in what chair. For example, in the permutations world, and this is all review, we've covered this in the combinations video, in the permutations world A, B, C, D, and D, A, B, C, these would be two different permutations that's being counted in whatever number this is. This is what? This is 30 times twelve. This is equal to 360. Each of these, this is one permutation, this is another permutation, and if we keep doing it we would count up to 360. But we learned in combinations, when we're thinking about combinations, let me write combinations. If we're saying n choose, n choose k, or how many combinations are there? If we take k things, and we just wanna figure out how many combinatio- If we start with n, if we have pool of n things, and we wanna say how many combinations of k things are there, then we would count these as the same combination. What we really wanna do is we wanna take the number of permutations there are. We wanna take the number of permutations there are, which is equal to n factorial over n minus k factorial, over n minus k factorial, and we wanna divide by the number of ways that you can arrange four people. Once again, this takes- I remember the first time I learned it took my brain a little while. If it's taking you a little while to think about it, not a big deal. It can be confusing at first, but hopefully if you keep thinking about it hopefully you will see clarity at some moment. What we wanna do is we wanna divide by all of the ways that you can arrange four things. Cuz once again, in the permutations it's counting all of the different arrangements of four things, but we don't wanna count all of those different arrangements of four things. We wanna just say they're all one combination. We wanna divide by the number of ways to arrange four things. Or the number of ways to arrange k things. Let me write this down. What is the number of ways, number of ways, to arrange k things, k things, in k spots. I encourage you to pause the video, because this actually a review from the first permutation video. If you have k spots, let me do it so if this is the first spot, the second spot, third spot, and then you're gonna go all the way to the kth spot. For the first spot there could be k possibilities. There's k things that could take the first spot. For each of those k possibilities, how many things can be in the second spot? It's gonna be k minus one, because you already put, you already put something in the first spot. Then over here, what's it gonna be? K minus two all the way to the last spot, there's only one thing that can be put in the last spot. What is this thing here? K times k minus one times k minus two times k minus three all the way down to one. This is just equal to k factorial. The number of ways to arrange k things in k spots, k factorial. The number of ways to arrange four things in four spots, that's four factorial. The number of ways to arrange three things in three spots, it's three factorial. We could just divide this. We could just divide this by k factorial. This would get us, this would get us, n factorial divided by k factorial, k factorial times, times n minus k factorial, n minus k, n minus k, I'll put the factorial right over there. This right over here is the formula. This right over here is the formula for combinations. Sometimes this is also called the binomial coefficient. People always call this n choose k. They'll also write it like this, n choose k, especially when they're thinking in terms of binomial coefficients. I got into kind of an abstract tangent here, when I started getting into the general formula. Let's go back to our example. In our example we saw that there was 360 ways of seating six people into four chairs. What if we didn't care about who's sitting in which chairs and just wanna say, "How many ways are there "to choose four people "from a pool of six?" That would be that would be how many ways are there. That would be six. How many combinations if I'm starting with a pool of six, how many combinations are there? How many combinations are there for selecting four? Another way of thinking about it is how many ways are there to, from a pool of six items, people in this example, how many ways are there to choose four of them. That is going to be, we could do it- I'll apply the formula first, and then I'll reason through it. And like I always say, I'm not a huge fan of the formula. Every time I revisit it after a few years, actually just rethink about it, as opposed to memorizing it, because memorizing is a good way to not understand what's actually going on, but if we just apply the formula here, I really want you to understand what's happening in the formula, it would be six factorial over four factorial, over four factorial, times six minus four factorial, six, oops let me just, This is six minus four factorial, so this part right over here, six minus four fa- Let me write it out because I know this can be a little bit confusing the first time you see it. So six minus four factorial, factorial, which is equal to, which is equal to six factorial over four factorial, over four factorial, times this thing right over here is two factorial, times two factorial, which is going to be equal to, we can just write out the factorials, six times five times four times three times two times one, over four. Four time three times two times one times, times two times one. Of course that's going to cancel with that. Then the one doesn't really change the value, so let me get rid of this one here. Let's see, this three can cancel with this three. This four could cancel with this four. Then it's six divided by two is going to be three. So we are just left with three times five. We are left with, we are left with, there's fifteen combinations. There's 360 permutations for putting six people into four chairs, but there's only 15 combinations, because we're no longer counting all of the different arrangements for the same four people in the four chairs. We're saying, "Hey if it's the same four people, "that is now one combination." You can see how many ways are there to arrange four people into four chairs? That's the four factorial part right over here. The four factorial part right over here, which is four times three times two times one, which is 24. We essentially just took the 360 divided by 24 to get 15. Once again, I don't think I can stress this enough. I wanna make it clear where this is coming from. This right over here, let me circle, this piece right over here is the number of permutations. This is really just so you can get to six times five times four times three, which is exactly what we did up here, where we reasoned through it. Then we just wanna divide by the number of ways you can arrange four items in four spaces.







Permutation Formula | Probability and Combinatorics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 7:34)Links to an external site. 


- [Voiceover] We know that if we had five people, let's say person A, person B, person C, person D, and person E, and we wanted to put them in five different, let's say, positions, or chairs, so position one, position two, position three, position four, and position five. If we wanted to count the number of scenarios, or we could say the number of permutations of putting these five people in these five chairs, we could say, well, we have five different ... If we seated people in order, which we might as well do, we could say, look, five different people could sit in chair one. So, for each of those scenarios, four different people could sit in chair two. Now, for each of these scenarios, now, so we have 20 scenarios. Five times four, we have 20 scenarios where we've seated seat one and seat two, how many people could we now seat in seat three for each of those 20 scenarios? Well, three people haven't sat down yet, so there's three possibilities there. So now, there's five times four times three scenarios for seating the first three people. How many people are left for seat four? Well, two people haven't sat down yet, so there's two possibilities. So now there's five times four times three times two scenarios of seating the first four seats. For each of those, how many possibilities are there for the fifth seat? Well, one. For each of those scenarios, we only have one person who hasn't sat down left, so there's one possibility. So the number of permutations, the number of ... Let me write this down. The number of permutations, permutations, of seating these five people in five chairs is five factorial. Five factorial, which is equal to five times four times three times two times one, which, of course, is equal to, let's see, 20 times six, which is equal to 120. We have already covered this in a previous video. But now let's do something maybe more interesting, or maybe you might find it less interesting. Let's say that we still have these five people, but we don't have as many chairs, so not everyone is going to be able to sit down. Let's say that we only have three chairs. We have chair one, we have chair two, and we have chair three. How many ways can you have five people, where only three of them are going to sit down in these three chairs, and we care which chair they sit in? I encourage you to pause the video and think about it. I am assuming you have had your go at it. Let's use the same logic. If we seat them in order, and we might as well, how many different people, if we haven't sat anyone yet, how many different people could sit in seat one? Well, we could have, if no one sat down, we had five different people, five different people could sit in seat one. For each of these scenarios where one person has already sat in seat one, how many people could sit in seat two? In each of these scenarios, if one person has sat down, there's four people left who haven't been seated, so four people could sit in seat two. So we have five times four scenarios where we've seated seats one and seat two. For each of those 20 scenarios, how many people could sit in seat three? Well, we haven't sat, we haven't seaten or sat three of the people yet, so for each of these 20, we could put three different people in seat three, so that gives us five times four times three scenarios. So this is equal to five times four times three scenarios, which is equal to, this is equal to 60. So there's 60 permutations of sitting five people in three chairs. Now this, and my brain, whenever I start to think in terms of permutations, I actually think in these ways. I just literally draw it out because I don't like formulas. I like to actually conceptualize and visualize what I'm doing. But you might say, hey, when we just did five different people in five different chairs, and we cared which seat they sit in, we had this five factorial. Factorial is kind of neat little operation there. How can I relate factorial to what we did just now? It looks like we kind of did factorial, but then we stopped. We stopped at, we didn't go times two times one. So one way to think about what we just did, is we just did five times four times three times two times one, but of course we actually didn't do the two times one, so you could take that and you could divide by two times one. If you did that, this two times one would cancel with that two times one and you'd be left with five times four times three. The whole reason I'm writing this way is that now I can write it in terms of factorial. I could write this as five factorial, five factorial, over two factorial, over two factorial. But then you might have the question where did this two come from? I have three seats. Where did this two come from? Well, think about it. I multiplied five times four times three, I kept going until I had that many seats, and then I didn't do the remainder. So the things that I left out, the things that I left out, that was essentially the number of people minus the number of chairs, so I was trying to put five things in three places. Five minus three, that gave me two left over. So I could write it like this. I could write it as five ... Let me use the same colors. I could write it as five factorial over, over five minus three, which of course is two, five minus three factorial. Another way of thinking about it, if we wanted to generalize, is if you're trying to figure out the number of permutations and there's a bunch of notations for writing this, if you're trying to figure out the number of permutations where you could put n people in r seats, or the number of permutations you could put n people in r seats, and there's other notations as well, well, this is just going to be n factorial over n minus r factorial. Here n was five, r was three. Five minus three is two. Now, you'll see this in a probability or a statistics class, and people might memorize this thing. It seems like this kind of daunting thing. I'll just tell you right now, the whole reason why I just showed this to you is so that you could connect it with what you might see in your textbook, or what you might see in a class, or when you see this type of formula, you see that it's not some type of voodoo magic. But I will tell that for me, personally, I never use this formula. I always reason it through, because if you just memorize the formula, you're always going, wait, does this formula apply there? What's n? What's r? But if you reason it through, it comes out of straight logic. You don't have to memorize anything. You don't feel like you're just memorizing without understanding. You're just using your deductive reasoning, your logic. That's especially valuable because as we'll see, not every scenario's going fit so cleanly into what we did. There might be some tweaks on this, where like maybe only person B likes sitting in one of the chairs, or who knows what it might be? Then your formula is going to be useless. So I like reasoning through it like this, but I just showed you this so that you could connect to it a formula that you might see in a lecture or in a class.






Probability Using Combinations | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 9:09)Links to an external site. 

So you might be wondering why I went off into permutations and combinations in the probability playlist, and I think you'll learn in this video. So let's say I want to figure out the probability-- I'm going to flip a coin eight times and it's a fair coin. And I want to figure out the probability of getting exactly 3 out of 8 heads. So I say 3/8 heads, but 3 of my flips are going to be heads and the rest are going to be tails. So how do I think about that? Well, let's go back to one of the early definitions we used for probability. And that says, the probability of anything happening is the probability of the number of equally probable events into which what we're stating is true. So in which the number of events-- I guess trials or situations-- in which we get 3 heads, and exactly 3 heads, we're not saying greater than 3 heads. So 4 heads won't count and 2 heads won't count, 5 heads won't-- only 3 heads. And then, over the total number of equally probable trials-- not trials, total number of equally possible outcomes. I should be using the word outcomes. So just with the word outcomes it should be the total number of outcomes in which what we're saying happens. So we get 3 heads over the total possible outcomes. So let's do the bottom part first. What are the total possible outcomes if I'm flipping a fair coin eight times? Well, the first time I flip it I either get heads or tails, so I get 2 outcomes. And then when I flip it again I get 2 more come for the second one. And then, how many total outcomes? Well, that's 2 times 2 because I could have got 2 in the first, 2 in the second flip. And then essentially we would multiply 2 times the number of flips. So that's 5, 6, 7, 8, and that equals 2 to the eighth. So the number of outcomes is just going to be 2 to the total number of flips. And hopefully that make sense to you. If not, you might want to re-watch some of the earlier videos. But that's the easy part. So there's 2 to the eighth possible outcomes when you flip a fair coin eight times. So how many of those outcomes are going to result in exactly 3 heads? Let's think of it this way. Let's give a name to each of our flips. Let's give a name to them. So let me make a little column, we'll call these the flips. This is my flips column. And I could name them anything. I could name them Larry, Curly, Moe. I could name them-- well, I would need 5 more names for them, but I could name them the 7 dwarfs or the 8 dwarfs really because I have 8 flips. I'll number the flips. Flip 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. And I'm the god of probability. And essentially, I need to just pick 3 of these flips that are going to result in heads. So another way to think about it is, these could be 8 people and I could pick which of these-- how many ways can I pick 3 of these people to put into the car? How many ways can I pick 3 of these people to sit in chairs. And it doesn't matter the order that I pick them in. It doesn't matter if I say the people that are going to get in the car are going to be people 1, 2, 3 3. Or if I say 3, 2, and 1, or if I say 2, 3, and 1. Those are all the same combination. So similarly, if I'm just picking flips and I have to say, OK, 3 of these flips are going to get into the heads car. Heads is like they're sitting, they're people sitting down. I don't want to confuse you too much. But essentially I'm just going to choose 3 things out of the 8. So I'm essentially just saying, how many combinations can I get where I pick 3 out of these 8. And so that should immediately ring a bell that we're essentially saying, out of 8 things we're going to choose 3. How many combinations of 3 can we pick of 8 and that we went over in the last video. And let's do it with the formula first. So let me write the formula up here just so you remember it, but I also want to give you the intuition again, for the formula. So in general, we said, n choose k, that is equal to n factorial over k factorial times n minus k factorial. So in this situation that would equal 8 factorial over 3 factorial times what? 8 minus k-- times 5 factorial. Or another way of writing this, this would be 8 times 7 times 6 times 5 times 4 times 3 times 2 times 1 over-- I'll just write 3 factorial for a second. Then times 5 times 4 times 3 times 2 times 1. And of course, that and that cancel out and all you're left with is 8 times 7 time 6 over 3 factorial. And I did this for reason because I want you to re-get the intuition at least for this part of the formula. That's essentially just saying, how many permutations can I-- how many ways can I pick 3 things out of 8? And that's essentially saying, well, before I pick anything I could pick 1 of 8. Then I have 7 left to pick from for the second spot. And then I have 6 left to pick for the third spot. And so that's essentially the number of permutations. But since we don't care what order we picked them in, we need to divide by the number of ways we can rearrange 3 things, and that's where the 3 factorial comes from. And so hopefully I didn't confuse you, but if I did you can go back to this formula for the binomial coefficient. But it's good to have the intuition. And then once we're at this point we can just calculate this. Well, what's this? This is 8 times 7 times 6 over 3 factorial of 3 times 2 times 1. So that's 6. The 6 cancels out, so it's 8 times 7. So there's 8 times 7, or what is that? 56. That's equal to 56. So there's 56 different ways to pick 3 things out of 8. Or if I have 8 people there's 56 ways of picking 3 people to sit in the car or however you want t view it. But if I have 8 flips there's 56 ways of picking 3 of those flips to be heads. So let's go to our original probability problem. What is the probably that I get 3 out of 8 heads? Well, it's the number of ways I can pick 3 out of those 8, so it equals 56, over the total number of outcomes. The total number of outcomes is 2 to the eighth. Another way I could write that-- 56, let me unseparate. That's 8 times 7 over 2 to the eighth. 8 is 2 to the third. Let me erase some of this. Not with that color. Let me erase that. Let me erase all of this just so I space. And I will switch colors for variety. Let me use the small pen. OK, so I'm back. All right, so 8 is the same thing as 2 to the third times 7-- this is all just mathematical simplification, but it's useful-- over 2 to the eighth. And so, if we just divide both sides-- the numerator and the denominator by 2 to the third, this becomes 1. This becomes 2 to the fifth. And so it becomes 7/32. Is that right? So if I were to pick 3 out of 8-- yep, I think that is right. And so what does that turn out to be? Let me get my calculator. [INAUDIBLE] to make careless mistakes. Let's see. My calculator seems to have disappeared. Let me get it back. There it is. OK. 7 divided by 32 is equal to 0.21875. Which is equal to 21.-- you know, if I were to round roughly-- 21.9% chance. So there's a little bit better than 1 in 5 chance that I get exactly 3 out of the 8 flips as heads. Hopefully I didn't confuse you and now you can apply that to pretty much anything. You could say, well, what is the probability of getting-- if I flip a fair coin-- of getting exactly 7 out of 8 heads? Or you could say, what's the probability of getting 2 out of 100 heads? And you could use it the exact same way we did this problem. I'll see you in the next video.






Calculating Conditional Probability | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 6:41)Links to an external site. 


Voiceover:Rahul's two favorite foods are bagels and pizza. Let A represent the event that he eats a bagel for breakfast and let B represent the event that he eats pizza for lunch. Fair enough. On a randomly selected day, the probability that Rahul will eat a bagel for breakfast, probability of A, is .6. Let me write that down. So the probability that he eats a bagel for breakfast is 0.6. The probability that he will eat a pizza for lunch, probability of event B ... So the probability of ... Let me do that in that red color. The probability of event B, that he eats a pizza for lunch, is 0.5. And the conditional probability, that he eats a bagel for breakfast given that he eats a pizza for lunch, so probability of event A happening, that he eats a bagel for breakfast, given that he's had a pizza for lunch is equal to 0.7, which is interesting. So let me write this down. The probability of A given, given that B is true. Given B, is not 0.6, it's equal to 0.7. And because these two things are not the same, because the probability of A by itself is different than the probability of A given that B is true, this tells us that these two events are not independent. That we're dealing with dependent probability. This shows us. The fact that B being true has changed the probability of A being true, this tells us that A and B are dependent. Dependent. And so when we start thinking ... Well actually let's just, before I start going on my little soapbox about dependent events, let's just think about what they actually want us to figure out. So the probability, the probability of A given B is equal to 0.7, that's what we wrote right over here. Based on this information, what is the probability of B given A? So they want us to figure out the probability of B given ... Probability of B given A. That's what they want us to figure out. The conditional probability that Rahul eats pizza for lunch, given that he eats a bagel for breakfast, rounded to the nearest hundredth. So how would we think about this? And I encourage you to pause this video before I work through it. So I'm assuming you've given a go at it. So the best way to tackle this is to just think about, well, what's the probability that both A and B are going to happen? Well, the probably of A and B happening ... And let me do this in a new color. The probability of A and B happening. A and B. I want to stay true to the colors. Is equal to ... There's a couple of ways you could write this out. This is equivalent to, this is equivalent to the probability, probability of A given B. Given B, times the probability of B. And hopefully that makes sense. The probability that B happens and that given that B had happened, the probability that A happens. And that would also be equal to ... So obviously this is A and B is happening, or you could do it the other way around. You could view it as the probability that B, the probability that B given A happens. Given A happens, times the probability of A. Times the probability of A. This also makes sense. What's the probability that A happened? And that, given A happened, what's the probability of B? You multiply those together, you get the probability that both happened. So why is this helpful for us? Well, we know a lot of this information. We know the probability of A given B is 0.7. So let me write that, I'll scroll down a little bit. This is 0.7. We know that the probability of B is 0.5. So this is 0.5. So we know that the probability of A and B is the product of these two things. That's going to be 0.35. Seven times five is 35 or, I guess you could say, half of .7 is 0.35. .5 of .7. And that is going to be equal to what we need to figure out. Probability of B given A times probability of A. But we know probability of A. We know that that is 0.6. We know that this is 0.6. So just like that, we've set up a situation, an equation, where we can solve for the probability of B given A. The probability of B given A. Notice, let me just rewrite it right over here. Actually, I'll write this part first. 0.6, 0.6 times the probability of B given A. Times that, right over there. And I'll just copy and paste it so I don't have to keep changing colors. That, over there, is equal to 0.35. Is equal to 0.35. And so to solve for the probability of B given A, we can just divide both sides by 0.6. 0.6, 0.6 and we get the probability of B given A is equal to ... Let me get our calculator out. So 0.35 divided by, divided by 0.6 and we deserve a little bit of a drum roll here, is .5833 ... It keeps going. They tell us to round to the nearest hundredth. So it's 0.58. Is approximately, is approximately 0.58. So notice, this is equal to 0 ... or I'll say approximately equal to 0.58. Once again, verifying that these are dependent. The probability that B happens given A is true, is higher than just the probability that B by itself, or without knowing anything else. Just the probability of B is lower than the probability of B given that you know, given that you know A has happened, or event A is true. And we're done.









Independent or Dependent Probability Event? | Precalculus | Khan Academy (YouTube - 2:38)Links to an external site. 

The marching band is holding a raffle at a football game with two prizes. After the first ticket is pulled out and the winner determined, the ticket is taped to the prize. The next ticket is pulled out to determine the winner of the second prize. Are the two events independent? Explain. Now before we even think about this exact case, let's think about what it means for events to be independent. It means that the outcome of one event doesn't affect the outcome of the other event. Now in this situation, the first event-- after the first ticket is pulled out and the winner determined-- the ticket is taped to the prize. Then the next ticket is pulled out to determine the winner of the second prize. Now, the winner of the second prize-- the possible winners, the possible outcomes for the second prize, is dependent on who was pulled out for the first prize. You can imagine if there's three tickets, let's say there's tickets A, B, and C in the bag. And for the first prize, they pull out ticket A. That's for the first prize. Now, when we think about who could be pulled out for the second prize, it's only going to be tickets B or C. Now the first prize could have gone the other way. It could have been A, B, and C. The first prize could have gone to ticket B. And then the possible outcomes for the second prize would be A or C. So the possible outcomes for the second event, for the second prize, are completely dependent on what happened or what ticket was pulled out for the first prize. So these are not independent events. The second event-- the outcomes for it, are dependent on what happened in the first event. So they are not independent. The way that we could have made them independent is, after the first ticket was pulled out, if they just wrote down the name or something, and then put that ticket back in. Instead they taped it to the prize. But if they put that ticket back in, then the second prize, it would have still had all the tickets there. It wouldn't have mattered who was picked out in the first time because their name was just written down, but their ticket was put back in. And then you would have been independent. So if you had replaced the ticket, you would have been independent. But since they didn't replace the ticket, they taped it to the prize, these are not independent events.







Bayes' Theorem of Probability with Tree Diagrams & Venn Diagrams | The Organic Chemistry Tutor (YouTube - 19:13)Links to an external site. 

in this video we're going to focus on B theorem but first let's go over some formulas particularly with conditional probability the probability of event a occurring given that event B has already occurred is the probability that event A and B will occur divided by the probability that event B will occur likewise we can say that the probability of B given a is equal to the probability of b and a occurring divided by the probability that event a will occur now the probability that event A and B will occur is equal to the probability that event b and a will occur so basically what I'm doing is I'm setting these two equal to each other now this is equal to the probability of a given B times the probability of B so let's replace that on the left side now on the right side the probability of b and a occurring is the product of the probability of B occurring given a has already occurred times the probability of of an a occurring now what I'm going to do is divide both sides by the probability that event B will occur and so this is going to give me the formula that is associated with Bas theorem so the probability that a will occur given that B has already occurred is equal to the probability that b will occur given that a has occurred times the probability of event a occurring divided the probability that event B will occur so base theorem helps us to calculate the conditional probability of an event if basically you know the reverse conditional probability with some other probability values as well but this is the basic formula of baser so P of a given B is equal to P of B given a * P of a / P of B now let's use a simple example that will illustrate the use of Base theorem so let's say that in a bottle there's a bunch of pieces of papers with numbers on it let's say event a represents the following numbers being drawn 1 2 3 4 and 5 LSA event B represents the numbers 4 5 6 7 8 and 9 now what is the probability of a given B let's use base theorem to calculate this particular probability even though we don't need to for educational purposes let's do it now what I'm going to do is create a vend diagram so let's say the first circle is for event a the second one is for B so A and B has these two numbers in common four and five so that's the intersection of A and B A also has the numbers 1 2 and 3 B has the number 6 7 8 and 9 now in order to calculate this using Bas term we need to know the probability of event a occurring the probability that event B will occur and basically the reverse conditional probability the probability that B will occur given that a has already occurred so what is the probability that a will occur well we need to write the sample space the sample space represents all of the possible numbers the numbers in A and B so the numbers that we can get represent all of the natural numbers from 1 to 9 so a has five out of the nine possible numbers that we can choose from so the probability that event a will occur assuming that each number has an equal chance of being drawn out of the bottle is going to be five out of nine now B has six numbers out of the nine numbers here so the probability that event B will occur is six out of nine now what about the next one what is the probability that b will occur given that a has already occurred there's a formula for that which we talked about earlier in this video but to think about it conceptually how much of B is in a a has five elements it has the numbers one to five out of those five numbers there's only two numbers that is in B that is part of a so the probability that b will occur given that event a has occurred is 2 out of five so now with this information we can calculate this particular conditional probability the probability that a will occur given that B has already occurred it's going to be P of B of A or rather B given a Time P of a over P of B and let me get rid of this so P of B given a that's what we have here that's 2 over 5 time P of a which is 5 over 9 / P of B which is 6 over9 so right now we could cancel the fives and if we multiply the top and the bottom of the fraction by n we can also cancel the nines so we're left with 2 over 6 which reduces to 1 over 3 so the probability that a will occur given that B has already occurred is 1 out of three now let's confirm that using conditional probability so P of a given B is the probability that event A and B occurs over the probability that b will occur so we know that the sample space has nine numbers how much of that is a and b the intersection of A and B is basically two numbers four and five so the probability that event A and B will occur is two out of the nine possible numbers now the probability that b will occur is what we see here it's 6 over 9 so multiplying the top and the bottom numbers by 9 we're going to get the same result initially it's going to be 2 over 6 which reduces to 1 over 3 now granted we could have done this from the beginning but now you see how Bas term works with the formula that we wrote earlier but let's consider another example in which we could use the base THM formula now for those of you who truly value this video if you want to show your appreciation one of the best ways you can do so is by subscribing to this Channel and it really doesn't take too long just click on that red button at the bottom of the screen and that's it by the way if you decide to do so don't forget to turn on or click on that notification Bell now for those of you who want to support my channel here's the link to my patreon page also when you get a chance check out the links in the description section below this video because I'm going to post some other resources that you might find helpful so let's get back to the video a particular study showed that 12% of men will likely develop prostate cancer at some point in their lives a man with prostate cancer has a 95% chance of a positive test result from a medical screening exam a man without prostate cancer has a 6% chance of getting a false positive test result what is the probability that a man has cancer given that he has a positive test result go ahead and try this problem feel free to take a minute if you need to so let's write down what we know the probability that a man has cancer I'm going to write P of C is 12% which is2 as a decimal now the second sentence says that a man with prostate cancer has a 95% chance of a positive test result so given that the person has cancer the probability that he will get a positive result or positive test result is 95% or .95 now what about the third sentence a man without prostate cancer has a 6% chance of getting a false positive test result so the probability of getting a positive test result given that the person does not have prostate cancer is 6% or 06 so what is the probability that the person has cancer given that he has a positive test result that's what we need to find so let's write the equation for that using Bas term so this is going to be the reverse conditional probability which is the probability of getting a positive test result given that the person has cancer times the probability that the person has cancer divided by the probability that the person has a positive test result now we have these two values already but we don't have this one how can we find it in this case it's going to be very helpful to make a tree diagram so 12% of the population will have prostate cancer based on this particular study that means that 88% which is 100 - 12 or 88 will not have cancer now out of those who have cancer 95% of them will have a positive test result which means the other 5% will have a negative test result now out of those who do not have cancer 6% will have a positive test result which means the the other 94% will have a negative test result so using this tree diagram how can we determine the probability that the person will have a positive test result the probability that a person will have a positive test result depends on two events that is the probability that the person has cancer and they will have a positive test result or which will be represented by the addition symbol the probability that the person does not have cancer and has a positive test result those are the two options so the probability that the person has cancer and has a positive test result is the product of these two values where they will have cancer and have a positive test result so it's basically 12 time .95 the probability that the person does not have cancer and has a positive test result is the product of these two values so it's 88 * 062 * .95 + 88 * 06 6 that's equal to1 1668 now I'm running out of space so I'm going to have to delete a few things hopefully you you wrote that down because I'm going to refer to it later if not you can always rewind the video now let's plug in the numbers into this formula so the probability of getting a positive test given that the person has cancer that's 0.95 the probability that the person has prostate cancer is 12% and the probability that the man or a man will have a positive test result is going to be 1668 or 16.68% so it's .95 * 12 /1 1668 and so you should get 68345 so there's approximately a 68.3% chance that the person will have cancer given that they have a positive test result so what is the probability that the person person does not have cancer even though they have a positive test result that's going to be 100 minus this number that is 100% - 68.3% or 1 - 683 which is 317 so there's approximately a 31.7% chance that even though the person has a positive test result that they do not have cancer so sometimes even if you get a positive test result doesn't mean that you have that condition that there's always a risk factor but the answer that we're looking for in this problem is this number 68.3% now there's another way in which we can get that answer let's talk about how we can do it so let's say that there's 10,000 people in a city and based on his survey 12% of those individuals have cancer so we're going to use the same percentages 10,000 time2 is 1,200 and the other 88% do not have cancer so 10,000 * 88 is 8,800 now of those who do have cancer we know that 95% of them will get a positive test result so 95% of 1200 or 1200 * .95 that's 1140 so the other 5% that's 1200 * 05 we get a negative test result and so that's 60 now of those who do not have cancer we know that 6% of that population will get a positive test result so 8,800 * 06 that's 528 the other 94% will get a negative test result when they don't have cancer so 8800 * .94 that's 8, 272 so now let's see if we can use this information to get the same answer so let me clear away a few things so the probability that a person has cancer given that the person has a positive test result is going to be well let's uh break it up into two parts based on the number of people that we chose it doesn't matter if you chose 10,000 or 100,000 because we're dealing with a ratio it's still going to be the same out of this group of 10,000 people how many have a positive test result the amount of people that have a positive test result is the sum of those two numbers it's 1140 plus 528 now out of those who have a positive test result how many of them have cancer it's only this number that's the number who have cancer and have a positive test result so that's 1140 so let's go ahead and add 1140 + 528 so that's 1668 so 1140 / 1668 gives us 683 so we could see why the answer is the same there's a 68.3% chance that the person will have cancer given that they have a positive test result so now you see two ways in which you can get the answer using a tree diagram or using the formula associated with Bas DM thanks for watching








Statistics Intro: Mean, Median, and Mode | Data and statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 8:53)Links to an external site. 

We will now begin our journey into the world of statistics, which is really a way to understand or get our head around data. So statistics is all about data. And as we begin our journey into the world of statistics, we will be doing a lot of what we can call descriptive statistics. So if we have a bunch of data, and if we want to tell something about all of that data without giving them all of the data, can we somehow describe it with a smaller set of numbers? So that's what we're going to focus on. And then once we build our toolkit on the descriptive statistics, then we can start to make inferences about that data, start to make conclusions, start to make judgments. And we'll start to do a lot of inferential statistics, make inferences. So with that out of the way, let's think about how we can describe data. So let's say we have a set of numbers. We can consider this to be data. Maybe we're measuring the heights of our plants in our garden. And let's say we have six plants. And the heights are 4 inches, 3 inches, 1 inch, 6 inches, and another one's 1 inch, and another one is 7 inches. And let's say someone just said-- in another room, not looking at your plants, just said, well, you know, how tall are your plants? And they only want to hear one number. They want to somehow have one number that represents all of these different heights of plants. How would you do that? Well, you'd say, well, how can I find something that-- maybe I want a typical number. Maybe I want some number that somehow represents the middle. Maybe I want the most frequent number. Maybe I want the number that somehow represents the center of all of these numbers. And if you said any of those things, you would actually have done the same things that the people who first came up with descriptive statistics said. They said, well, how can we do it? And we'll start by thinking of the idea of average. And in every day terminology, average has a very particular meaning, as we'll see. When many people talk about average, they're talking about the arithmetic mean, which we'll see shortly. But in statistics, average means something more general. It really means give me a typical, or give me a middle number, or-- and these are or's. And really it's an attempt to find a measure of central tendency. So once again, you have a bunch of numbers. You're somehow trying to represent these with one number we'll call the average, that's somehow typical, or middle, or the center somehow of these numbers. And as we'll see, there's many types of averages. The first is the one that you're probably most familiar with. It's the one-- and people talk about hey, the average on this exam or the average height. And that's the arithmetic mean. Just let me write it in. I'll write in yellow, arithmetic mean. When arithmetic is a noun, we call it arithmetic. When it's an adjective like this, we call it arithmetic, arithmetic mean. And this is really just the sum of all the numbers divided by-- this is a human-constructed definition that we've found useful-- the sum of all these numbers divided by the number of numbers we have. So given that, what is the arithmetic mean of this data set? Well, let's just compute it. It's going to be 4 plus 3 plus 1 plus 6 plus 1 plus 7 over the number of data points we have. So we have six data points. So we're going to divide by 6. And we get 4 plus 3 is 7, plus 1 is 8, plus 6 is 14, plus 1 is 15, plus 7. 15 plus 7 is 22. Let me do that one more time. You have 7, 8, 14, 15, 22, all of that over 6. And we could write this as a mixed number. 6 goes into 22 three times with a remainder of 4. So it's 3 and 4/6, which is the same thing as 3 and 2/3. We could write this as a decimal with 3.6 repeating. So this is also 3.6 repeating. We could write it any one of those ways. But this is kind of a representative number. This is trying to get at a central tendency. Once again, these are human-constructed. No one ever-- it's not like someone just found some religious document that said, this is the way that the arithmetic mean must be defined. It's not as pure of a computation as, say, finding the circumference of the circle, which there really is-- that was kind of-- we studied the universe. And that just fell out of our study of the universe. It's a human-constructed definition that we found useful. Now there are other ways to measure the average or find a typical or middle value. The other very typical way is the median. And I will write median. I'm running out of colors. I will write median in pink. So there is the median. And the median is literally looking for the middle number. So if you were to order all the numbers in your set and find the middle one, then that is your median. So given that, what's the median of this set of numbers going to be? Let's try to figure it out. Let's try to order it. So we have 1. Then we have another 1. Then we have a 3. Then we have a 4, a 6, and a 7. So all I did is I reordered this. And so what's the middle number? Well, you look here. Since we have an even number of numbers, we have six numbers, there's not one middle number. You actually have two middle numbers here. You have two middle numbers right over here. You have the 3 and the 4. And in this case, when you have two middle numbers, you actually go halfway between these two numbers. You're essentially taking the arithmetic mean of these two numbers to find the median. So the median is going to be halfway in-between 3 and 4, which is going to be 3.5. So the median in this case is 3.5. So if you have an even number of numbers, the median or the middle two, the-- essentially the arithmetic mean of the middle two, or halfway between the middle two. If you have an odd number of numbers, it's a little bit easier to compute. And just so that we see that, let me give you another data set. Let's say our data set-- and I'll order it for us-- let's say our data set was 0, 7, 50, I don't know, 10,000, and 1 million. Let's say that is our data set. Kind of a crazy data set. But in this situation, what is our median? Well, here we have five numbers. We have an odd number of numbers. So it's easier to pick out a middle. The middle is the number that is greater than two of the numbers and is less than two of the numbers. It's exactly in the middle. So in this case, our median is 50. Now, the third measure of central tendency, and this is the one that's probably used least often in life, is the mode. And people often forget about it. It sounds like something very complex. But what we'll see is it's actually a very straightforward idea. And in some ways, it is the most basic idea. So the mode is actually the most common number in a data set, if there is a most common number. If all of the numbers are represented equally, if there's no one single most common number, then you have no mode. But given that definition of the mode, what is the single most common number in our original data set, in this data set right over here? Well, we only have one 4. We only have one 3. But we have two 1's. We have one 6 and one 7. So the number that shows up the most number of times here is our 1. So the mode, the most typical number, the most common number here is a 1. So, you see, these are all different ways of trying to get at a typical, or middle, or central tendency. But they do it in very, very different ways. And as we study more and more statistics, we'll see that they're good for different things. This is used very frequently. The median is really good if you have some kind of crazy number out here that could have otherwise skewed the arithmetic mean. The mode could also be useful in situations like that, especially if you do have one number that's showing up a lot more frequently. Anyway, I'll leave you there. And we'll-- the next few videos, we will explore statistics even deeper.







Range, Variance, and Standard Deviation as Measures of Dispersion | Khan Academy (YouTube - 12:33)Links to an external site. 

In the last video we talked about different ways to represent the central tendency or the average of a data set. What we're going to do in this video is to expand that a little bit to understand how spread apart the data is as well. So let's just think about this a little bit. Let's say I have negative 10, 0, 10, 20 and 30. Let's say that's one data set right there. And let's say the other data set is 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. Now let's calculate the arithmetic mean for both of these data sets. So let's calculate the mean. And when you go further on in statistics, you're going to understand the difference between a population and a sample. We're assuming that this is the entire population of our data. So we're going to be dealing with the population mean. We're going to be dealing with, as you see, the population measures of dispersion. I know these are all fancy words. In the future, you're not going to have all of the data. You're just going to have some samples of it, and you're going to try to estimate things for the entire population. So I don't want you to worry too much about that just now. But if you are going to go further in statistics, I just want to make that clarification. Now, the population mean, or the arithmetic mean of this data set right here, it is negative 10 plus 0 plus 10 plus 20 plus 30 over-- we have five data points-- over 5. And what is this equal to? That negative 10 cancels out with that 10, 20 plus 30 is 50 divided by 5, it's equal to 10. Now, what's the mean of this data set? 8 plus 9 plus 10 plus 11 plus 12, all of that over 5. And the way we could think about it, 8 plus 12 is 20, 9 plus 11 is another 20, so that's 40, and then we have a 50 there. Add another 10. So this, once again, is going to be 50 over 5. So this has the exact same population means. Or if you don't want to worry about the word population or sample and all of that, both of these data sets have the exact same arithmetic mean. When you average all these numbers and divide by 5 or when you take the sum of these numbers and divide by 5, you get 10, some of these numbers and divide by 5, you get 10 as well. But clearly, these sets of numbers are different. You know, if you just looked at this number, you'd say, oh, maybe these sets are very similar to each other. But when you look at these two data sets, one thing might pop out at you. All of these numbers are very close to 10. I mean, the furthest number here is two away from 10. 12 is only two away from 10. Here, these numbers are further away from 10. Even the closer ones are still 10 away and these guys are 20 away from 10. So this right here, this data set right here is more disperse, right? These guys are further away from our mean than these guys are from this mean. So let's think about different ways we can measure dispersion, or how far away we are from the center, on average. Now one way, this is kind of the most simple way, is the range. And you won't see it used too often, but it's kind of a very simple way of understanding how far is the spread between the largest and the smallest number. You literally take the largest number, which is 30 in our example, and from that, you subtract the smallest number. So 30 minus negative 10, which is equal to 40, which tells us that the difference between the largest and the smallest number is 40, so we have a range of 40 for this data set. Here, the range is the largest number, 12, minus the smallest number, which is 8, which is equal to 4. So here range is actually a pretty good measure of dispersion. We say, OK, both of these guys have a mean of 10. But when I look at the range, this guy has a much larger range, so that tells me this is a more disperse set. But range is always not going to tell you the whole picture. You might have two data sets with the exact same range where still, based on how things are bunched up, it could still have very different distributions of where the numbers lie. Now, the one that you'll see used most often is called the variance. Actually, we're going to see the standard deviation in this video. That's probably what's used most often, but it has a very close relationship to the variance. So the symbol for the variance-- and we're going to deal with the population variance. Once again, we're assuming that this is all of the data for our whole population, that we're not just sampling, taking a subset, of the data. So the variance, its symbol is literally this sigma, this Greek letter, squared. That is the symbol for variance. And we'll see that the sigma letter actually is the symbol for standard deviation. And that is for a reason. But anyway, the definition of a variance is you literally take each of these data points, find the difference between those data points and your mean, square them, and then take the average of those squares. I know that sounds very complicated, but when I actually calculate it, you're going to see it's not too bad. So remember, the mean here is 10. So I take the first data point. Let me do it over here. Let me scroll down a little bit. So I take the first data point. Negative 10. From that, I'm going to subtract our mean and I'm going to square that. So I just found the difference from that first data point to the mean and squared it. And that's essentially to make it positive. Plus the second data point, 0 minus 10, minus the mean-- this is the mean; this is that 10 right there-- squared plus 10 minus 10 squared-- that's the middle 10 right there-- plus 20 minus 10-- that's the 20-- squared plus 30 minus 10 squared. So this is the squared differences between each number and the mean. This is the mean right there. I'm finding the difference between every data point and the mean, squaring them, summing them up, and then dividing by that number of data points. So I'm taking the average of these numbers, of the squared distances. So when you say it kind of verbally, it sounds very complicated. But you're taking each number. What's the difference between that, the mean, square it, take the average of those. So I have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, divided by 5. So what is this going to be equal to? Negative 10 minus 10 is negative 20. Negative 20 squared is 400. 0 minus 10 is negative 10 squared is 100, so plus 100. 10 minus 10 squared, that's just 0 squared, which is 0. Plus 20 minus 10 is 10 squared, is 100. Plus 30 minus 10, which is 20, squared is 400. All of that over 5. And what do we have here? 400 plus 100 is 500, plus another 500 is 1000. It's equal to 1000/5, which is equal to 200. So in this situation, our variance is going to be 200. That's our measure of dispersion there. And let's compare it to this data set over here. Let's compare it to the variance of this less-dispersed data set. So let me scroll over a little bit so we have some real estate, although I'm running out. Maybe I could scroll up here. There you go. Let me calculate the variance of this data set. So we already know its mean. So its variance of this data set is going to be equal to 8 minus 10 squared plus 9 minus 10 squared plus 10 minus 10 squared plus 11 minus 10-- let me scroll up a little bit-- squared plus 12 minus 10 squared. Remember, that 10 is just the mean that we calculated. You have to calculate the mean first. Divided by-- we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 squared differences. So this is going to be equal to-- 8 minus 10 is negative 2 squared, is positive 4. 9 minus 10 is negative 1 squared, is positive 1. 10 minus 10 is 0 squared. You still get 0. 11 minus 10 is 1. Square it, you get 1. 12 minus 10 is 2. Square it, you get 4. And what is this equal to? All of that over 5. This is 10/5. So this is going to be--all right, this is 10/5, which is equal to 2. So the variance here-- let me make sure I got that right. Yes, we have 10/5. So the variance of this less-dispersed data set is a lot smaller. The variance of this data set right here is only 2. So that gave you a sense. That tells you, look, this is definitely a less-dispersed data set then that there. Now, the problem with the variance is you're taking these numbers, you're taking the difference between them and the mean, then you're squaring it. It kind of gives you a bit of an arbitrary number, and if you're dealing with units, let's say if these are distances. So this is negative 10 meters, 0 meters, 10 meters, this is 8 meters, so on and so forth, then when you square it, you get your variance in terms of meters squared. It's kind of an odd set of units. So what people like to do is talk in terms of standard deviation, which is just the square root of the variance, or the square root of sigma squared. And the symbol for the standard deviation is just sigma. So now that we've figured out the variance, it's very easy to figure out the standard deviation of both of these characters. The standard deviation of this first one up here, of this first data set, is going to be the square root of 200. The square root of 200 is what? The square root of 2 times 100. This is equal to 10 square roots of 2. That's that first data set. Now the standard deviation of the second data set is just going to be the square root of its variance, which is just 2. So the second data set has 1/10 the standard deviation as this first data set. This is 10 roots of 2, this is just the root of 2. So this is 10 times the standard deviation. And this, hopefully, will make a little bit more sense. Let's think about it. This has 10 times more the standard deviation than this. And let's remember how we calculated it. Variance, we just took each data point, how far it was away from the mean, squared that, took the average of those. Then we took the square root, really just to make the units look nice, but the end result is we said that that first data set has 10 times the standard deviation as the second data set. So let's look at the two data sets. This has 10 times the standard deviation, which makes sense intuitively, right? I mean, they both have a 10 in here, but each of these guys, 9 is only one away from the 10, 0 is 10 away from the 10, 10 less. 8 is only two away. This guy is 20 away. So it's 10 times, on average, further away. So the standard deviation, at least in my sense, is giving a much better sense of how far away, on average, we are from the mean. Anyway, hopefully, you found that useful.


