Discrete and Continuous Random Variables | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 11:56)Links to an external site. 

We already know a little bit about random variables. What we're going to see in this video is that random variables come in two varieties. You have discrete random variables, and you have continuous random variables. And discrete random variables, these are essentially random variables that can take on distinct or separate values. And we'll give examples of that in a second. So that comes straight from the meaning of the word discrete in the English language-- distinct or separate values. While continuous-- and I guess just another definition for the word discrete in the English language would be polite, or not obnoxious, or kind of subtle. That is not what we're talking about. We are not talking about random variables that are polite. We're talking about ones that can take on distinct values. And continuous random variables, they can take on any value in a range. And that range could even be infinite. So any value in an interval. So with those two definitions out of the way, let's look at some actual random variable definitions. And I want to think together about whether you would classify them as discrete or continuous random variables. So let's say that I have a random variable capital X. And it is equal to-- well, this is one that we covered in the last video. It's 1 if my fair coin is heads. It's 0 if my fair coin is tails. So is this a discrete or a continuous random variable? Well, this random variable right over here can take on distinctive values. It can take on either a 1 or it could take on a 0. Another way to think about it is you can count the number of different values it can take on. This is the first value it can take on, this is the second value that it can take on. So this is clearly a discrete random variable. Let's think about another one. Let's define random variable Y as equal to the mass of a random animal selected at the New Orleans zoo, where I grew up, the Audubon Zoo. Y is the mass of a random animal selected at the New Orleans zoo. Is this a discrete random variable or a continuous random variable? Well, the exact mass-- and I should probably put that qualifier here. I'll even add it here just to make it really, really clear. The exact mass of a random animal, or a random object in our universe, it can take on any of a whole set of values. I mean, who knows exactly the exact number of electrons that are part of that object right at that moment? Who knows the neutrons, the protons, the exact number of molecules in that object, or a part of that animal exactly at that moment? So that mass, for example, at the zoo, it might take on a value anywhere between-- well, maybe close to 0. There's no animal that has 0 mass. But it could be close to zero, if we're thinking about an ant, or we're thinking about a dust mite, or maybe if you consider even a bacterium an animal. I believe bacterium is the singular of bacteria. And it could go all the way. Maybe the most massive animal in the zoo is the elephant of some kind. And I don't know what it would be in kilograms, but it would be fairly large. So maybe you can get up all the way to 3,000 kilograms, or probably larger. Let's say 5,000 kilograms. I don't know what the mass of a very heavy elephant-- or a very massive elephant, I should say-- actually is. It may be something fun for you to look at. But any animal could have a mass anywhere in between here. It does not take on discrete values. You could have an animal that is exactly maybe 123.75921 kilograms. And even there, that actually might not be the exact mass. You might have to get even more precise, --10732. 0, 7, And I think you get the picture. Even though this is the way I've defined it now, a finite interval, you can take on any value in between here. They are not discrete values. So this one is clearly a continuous random variable. Let's think about another one. Let's think about-- let's say that random variable Y, instead of it being this, let's say it's the year that a random student in the class was born. Is this a discrete or a continuous random variable? Well, that year, you literally can define it as a specific discrete year. It could be 1992, or it could be 1985, or it could be 2001. There are discrete values that this random variable can actually take on. It won't be able to take on any value between, say, 2000 and 2001. It'll either be 2000 or it'll be 2001 or 2002. Once again, you can count the values it can take on. Most of the times that you're dealing with, as in the case right here, a discrete random variable-- let me make it clear this one over here is also a discrete random variable. Most of the time that you're dealing with a discrete random variable, you're probably going to be dealing with a finite number of values. But it does not have to be a finite number of values. You can actually have an infinite potential number of values that it could take on-- as long as the values are countable. As long as you can literally say, OK, this is the first value it could take on, the second, the third. And you might be counting forever, but as long as you can literally list-- and it could be even an infinite list. But if you can list the values that it could take on, then you're dealing with a discrete random variable. Notice in this scenario with the zoo, you could not list all of the possible masses. You could not even count them. You might attempt to-- and it's a fun exercise to try at least once, to try to list all of the values this might take on. You might say, OK, maybe it could take on 0.01 and maybe 0.02. But wait, you just skipped an infinite number of values that it could take on, because it could have taken on 0.011, 0.012. And even between those, there's an infinite number of values it could take on. There's no way for you to count the number of values that a continuous random variable can take on. There's no way for you to list them. With a discrete random variable, you can count the values. You can list the values. Let's do another example. Let's let random variable Z, capital Z, be the number ants born tomorrow in the universe. Now, you're probably arguing that there aren't ants on other planets. Or maybe there are ant-like creatures, but they're not going to be ants as we define them. But how do we know? So number of ants born in the universe. Maybe some ants have figured out interstellar travel of some kind. So the number of ants born tomorrow in the universe. That's my random variable Z. Is this a discrete random variable or a continuous random variable? Well, once again, we can count the number of values this could take on. This could be 1. It could be 2. It could be 3. It could be 4. It could be 5 quadrillion ants. It could be 5 quadrillion and 1. We can actually count the values. Those values are discrete. So once again, this right over here is a discrete random variable. This is fun, so let's keep doing more of these. Let's say that I have random variable X. So we're not using this definition anymore. Now I'm going to define random variable X to be the winning time-- now let me write it this way. The exact winning time for the men's 100-meter dash at the 2016 Olympics. So the exact time that it took for the winner-- who's probably going to be Usain Bolt, but it might not be. Actually, he's aging a little bit. But whatever the exact winning time for the men's 100-meter in the 2016 Olympics. And not the one that you necessarily see on the clock. The exact, the precise time that you would see at the men's 100-meter dash. Is this a discrete or a continuous random variable? Well, the way I've defined, and this one's a little bit tricky. Because you might say it's countable. You might say, well, it could either be 956, 9.56 seconds, or 9.57 seconds, or 9.58 seconds. And you might be tempted to believe that, because when you watch the 100-meter dash at the Olympics, they measure it to the nearest hundredths. They round to the nearest hundredth. That's how precise their timing is. But I'm talking about the exact winning time, the exact number of seconds it takes for that person to, from the starting gun, to cross the finish line. And there, it can take on any value. It can take on any value between-- well, I guess they're limited by the speed of light. But it could take on any value you could imagine. It might be anywhere between 5 seconds and maybe 12 seconds. And it could be anywhere in between there. It might not be 9.57. That might be what the clock says, but in reality the exact winning time could be 9.571, or it could be 9.572359. I think you see what I'm saying. The exact precise time could be any value in an interval. So this right over here is a continuous random variable. Now what would be the case, instead of saying the exact winning time, if instead I defined X to be the winning time of the men's 100 meter dash at the 2016 Olympics rounded to the nearest hundredth? Is this a discrete or a continuous random variable? So let me delete this. I've changed the random variable now. Is this going to be a discrete or a continuous random variable? Well now, we can actually count the actual values that this random variable can take on. It might be 9.56. It could be 9.57. It could be 9.58. We can actually list them. So in this case, when we round it to the nearest hundredth, we can actually list of values. We are now dealing with a discrete random variable. Anyway, I'll let you go there. Hopefully this gives you a sense of the distinction between discrete and continuous random variables.











Probability Density Functions | The Organic Chemistry Tutor (YouTube - 11:45)Links to an external site. 

in this video we're going to talk about how to solve probability density functions so we're given f of X which is 0.04 X times 5 minus X now if f is a probability density function it has to be equal to or less than zero so it can't be negative so notice that when X is zero the function will be equal to zero and also in X is five so X has to be between zero and five if X is 6 5 minus 6 will give us a negative result and if X is negative one this will give us a negative easil so X has to be between 0 and 5 now how can we verify that f is a probability density function the integral from negative infinity to infinity of any probability density function by definition has to equal 1 and since X has to be between 0 & 5 the integral from 0 to 5 of f of X DX must also equal to 1 so this is what we need to verify so let's integrate point 0 4 8 X 5 minus X DX from 0 to 5 and let's see if it's equal to 1 so the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to move this constant to the front and then I'm going to distribute X - 5 - X so it's going to be 5 X - x squared now the antiderivative of 5 X that's going to be 5 x squared over 2 and the antiderivative of x squared is X cube over 3 so now let's plug in 5 so 5 squared is 25 times 5 that's 125 over 2 and then 5 to the third is 125 but this is in the only 3 and if we plug in 0 x squared + X cubed above 0 so let's get common denominators so 125 over 2 I'm going to multiply it by 3 over 3 and 125 over 3 I'm going to multiply it by 2 over 2 so 125 times three that's gonna be 375 125 times two is 250 and 375 minus 250 is 125 so this is the me 125 over six point zero four eight times 125 that's equal to six and 6 divided by 6 is 1 so therefore F is indeed a probability density function now let's move on to Part B what is the probability that X is greater than 4 so to find a probability that X is between a and B we need to evaluate the definite integral from A to B of f of X DX so to calculate the probability that X is greater than 4 which means that it's between 4 & 5 we need to calculate the definite integral from 4 to 5 point 0 for 8 x times 5 minus X DX so at this point I'm going to just use a calculator to get the answer you know how to evaluate the definite integral and so you should get point 1:04 so as a percentage if you multiply this by a hundred there's a ten point four percent chance that X is between four and five or that X is greater than four so now what about see what is the probability that X is between 1 & 3 so this is just going to be the definite integral from 1 to 3 of the function and so let's use a calculator to get that answer as well and so this is gonna be point five four four which represents a fifty four point four percent chance that X is between one and three now let's work on another problem that average waiting time for a customer at a restaurant is five minutes using an exponential density function find the probability that a customer has to wait more than seven minutes so to find this function it's going to be zero when T is less than zero you can't wait for lessons or minutes and then when T is greater than or equal to zero we have this exponential function it's 1 over the mean times e raised to the negative T divided by the mean and the mean represents the average waiting time which is five minutes so f of T is going to be one over five e to the negative T over five won t is equal to a greater than zero so this is the portion of the function that we're going to focus on so how can we use that to find a probability that the customer has to wait more than seven minutes so we want to find a probability that T is greater than seven so we need to find the definite integral from seven to infinity of f of T DT or one over five e to the negative T over five the DT so this is the integral that we need to evaluate so let's find the antiderivative of e to the negative T over five so it's gonna be e to the negative T over five divided by the derivative of negative T over 5 which is negative one over five we're gonna evaluate this from seven to infinity so this is going to be well first we can cancel one over five and so this simplifies to negative e to the negative T over five from seven to infinity now we have an improper integral so we need to express this as a limit so this is going to be the limit as X approaches infinity negative e negative T over five from seven to X so if we plug in ax is going to be the limit as X approaches infinity for negative e negative x over five and then we need to plug in seven so minus negative e to the negative seven over five now e to the negative infinity that's basically 1 over e to infinity and since it's bottom-heavy it's going to be zero so this entire limit is equal to zero and then these two negative signs will cancel so it's gonna be plus e to the negative seven over five which is 1 over e to the 7 over 5 so this point we need to use a calculator and so you should get one two four six six so there's a twenty four point 66 chance that the customer has to wait more than seven minutes to be served food now let's move on to Part B find a probability that a customer will be served within the first three minutes so we need to find a probability that T is between zero and three so we need to find the definite integral from zero to three of this function and so that's gonna be one over five e to the negative T over five so let's find the antiderivative just like before so we're going to divide this by negative one over five and then evaluate it from 0 to 3 and so this is negative e to the negative T over five and zero to three so let's plug in three it's gonna be negative e to the negative three over five and then let's plug in zero so negative e to the zero power e to the zero is one and these two negative signs will cancel so we have negative e to the negative three over five plus one or you could say one minus e to the negative three over five and so this is equal to point four five one two so there's a forty five point twelve percent chance that the customer will be served within the first three minutes of requesting their order and so that's it for this video so now you know how to answer some basic questions with probability density functions and even exponential density functions as well









Introduction to the Normal Distribution | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 26:23)Links to an external site. 


The normal distribution is arguably the most important concept in statistics. Everything we do, or almost everything we do in inferential statistics, which is essentially making inferences based on data points, is to some degree based on the normal distribution. And so what I want to do in this video and in this spreadsheet is to essentially give you as deep an understanding of the normal distribution as possible. And the rest of your life, you're always, if someone says, oh, we're assuming a normal distribution, it's like, oh, I know what that is. This is the formula, and I understand how to use it, et cetera, et cetera. So this spreadsheet, just so you know, is downloadable at www.khanacademy.org/downloads/-- and if you just type that part in, you'll see everything that's downloadable-- but then download/normalintro.xls. And then you'll get this spreadsheet right here. And I think I did this in the right standard. But anyway, if you go onto Wikipedia, and if you were to type in normal distribution, or you were to do a search for normal distribution-- let me actually get my Pen tool going-- this is what you would see. I literally copied and pasted this right here from Wikipedia, and I know it looks daunting. You have all these Greek letters there. But the sigma right here, that is just the standard deviation of the distribution. We'll play with that a little bit with in this chart, and see what that means. I mean, you know what the standard deviation is in general, but this is the standard deviation of this distribution, which is a probability density function. And I encourage you to re-watch the video on probability density functions, because it's a little bit of a transition going from the binomial distribution, which is discrete, right? In the binomial distribution, you say, oh, what is the probability of getting a 5? And you just look at that histogram or that bar chart, and you say, oh, that's the probability. But in a continuous probability distribution, or a continuous probability density function, you can't just say, what is a probability of me getting a 5? You have to say, what is a probability of me getting between, let's say, a 4.5 and a 5.5? You have to give it some range. And then your probability isn't given by just reading this graph. The probability is given by the area under that curve, right? It'd be given by this area. And for those of you all who know calculus, if p of x is our probability density function-- it doesn't have to be a normal distribution, although it often is a normal distribution-- the way you actually figure out the probability of, let's say, between 4 and 1/2 and 5 and 1/2. What is the probability this is, whatever-- the odds of me getting between 4 and 1/2 and 5 and 1/2 inches of rain tomorrow? It'll actually be the integral from 4 and 1/2 to 5 and 1/2 of this probability density function, or of this probability density function, the x, right? So that's just the area in the curve. For those of you who don't know calculus yet, I encourage you to watch that playlist. But all this is is saying, the area in the curve from here to here. And it actually turns out, for the normal distribution, this isn't an easy thing to evaluate analytically. And so you do it numerically. You don't have to feel bad about doing it numerically, because you're like, oh, how do I take the integral of this? There's actually functions for it, and you can even approximate it. I mean, one way you could approximate it is you could use it the way you approximate integrals in general, where you could say, well, what is the area of this? Well, it's roughly the area of this trapezoid. So you could figure out the area of that trapezoid, taking the average of that point and that point, and multiplying it by the base. Let me change colors, just because I think I'm overdoing it with the green. Or you could just take the height of this line right here, and multiply it by the base, and you'll get the area of this rectangle, which might be a pretty good approximation for the area under the curve, right, because you'll have a little bit extra over here, but you're going to miss a little bit over there. So it might be pretty good approximation. And that's actually what I do in the other video, just to approximate the area under the curve, and give you a good sense that the normal distribution is what the binomial distribution becomes, essentially, if you have many, many, many, many trials. And what's interesting about the normal distribution, just so you know-- I don't know if I mentioned this already-- this right here, this is the graph. And then this is just another word. People might talk about the central limit theorem. But this is really one of the most important or interesting things about our universe-- central limit theorem. And I won't prove it here, but it essentially tells us-- and you could understand it by looking at the other video, where we talk about flipping coins. And if we were to do many, many, many flips of coins, right, those are independent trials of each other. And if you take the sum of all of your flips-- if you were to give yourself one point if you got ahead every time-- and if you were to take the sum of them, as you approach an infinite number of flips, you approach the normal distribution. And what's interesting about that is, each of those trials, in the case of flipping a coin-- each trial is a flip of the coin-- each of those trials don't have to have a normal distribution. So we could be talking about molecular interactions, and every time compound x interacts with compound y, what might result doesn't have to be normally distributed. But what happens is, if you take a sum of a ton of those interactions, then, all of a sudden, the end result will be normally distributed. And this is why this is such an important distribution. It shows up in nature all of the time. If you do take data points from something that is very, very complex, and it is the sum of, arguably, many, many, almost infinite, individual, independent trials, it's a pretty good assumption to assume the normal distribution. We'll do other videos where we talk about when it is a good assumption, and when it isn't a good assumption. But anyway, just to digest this a little bit-- and let me actually rewrite it. This is what you'll see on Wikipedia, but this could be rewritten as 1 over sigma times the square root of 2 pi, times-- x is just e to that power. So it's just e to the this whole thing over here, minus x minus the mean squared over 2 sigma squared. This is the standard deviation. Standard deviation squared is just the variance, right? And just so you know how to use this-- you're like, oh, wow, there's so many Greek letters here. What do I do? This tells you the height of the normal distribution function. Let's say that this is the distribution of, I don't know, of people's, I don't know, how far north they live from my house, or something. I don't know. Well, no. That's not a good one. Let's say it's people's heights above 5' 9". Let's say that this was 5' 9" and not 0, right? What this tells you is, if you were to say, what percentage of people, or I guess, if you wanted to figure out, what is the probability of finding someone who is roughly 5 inches taller than the average right here, what you would is, you would put in this number here, this 5, into x. And then you know the standard deviation, because you've taken a bunch of samples. You know the variance, which is a standard deviation squared. You know the mean. And you just put your x in there, and it'll tell you the height of the function. And then you have to give it a range. You can't just say, how many people are exactly 5 inches taller than average? You would have to say, how many people are between 5.1 inches and 4.9 inches taller than the average? You have to give it a little bit of range, because no is exactly-- or, it's almost infinitely impossible, to the atom, to be exactly 5' 9". Even the definition of an inch isn't defined that particularly. So that's how you use this function. I think this is so heavily used in-- one, it shows up in nature. But in all of inferential statistics, I think it behooves you to become as familiar with this formula as possible. And I guess to make that happen, let me play around a little bit with this formula, just to give you an intuition of how everything works out, et cetera, et cetera. So if I were to take this-- and I'd like to just maybe help you memorize it-- this could be rewritten as, if we take the sigma into the square root sign, if we take the standard deviation in there, it becomes 1 over the square root of 2 pi sigma squared. I've never seen it written this way, but it gives me a little intuition that sigma squared-- it's always written as sigma squared, but it's really just the variance. And the variance is what you calculate before you calculate the standard deviation. So that's interesting. And then this top right here, this could be written as e to the minus 1/2 times-- both of these things here are squared, so we could just say, x minus the mean over sigma squared. And this kind of clarifies a little bit what's going on here a little bit better, because what's this? x minus sigma is the distance between whatever point we want to find. Let's say we're here. x minus mu is the mean, so that's here. So that's this distance. And then this is a standard deviation, which is this distance. So this in here tells me how many standard deviations I am away from the mean. And that's actually called the standard z-score. I talk about it in the other video. And then we square that. And then we take this to the minus 1/2. Well, let me rewrite that. If I were to write, e to the minus 1/2 times a, that's the same thing as e to the a to the minus 1/2 power, right? If you take something to an exponent, and then take that to an exponent, you can just multiply these exponents. So likewise, this could be rewritten as, this is equal to 1 over the square root of 2 pi sigma squared, which is just the variance. And I'm just playing around with the formula, because I really want to see all the ways that-- maybe you'll get a little intuition. And I encourage you to email me if you see some insight on why this exists, and all of that. But once again, I think it is cool that all of a sudden, we have this other formula that has pi and e in it, and so many phenomenon are described by this. And once again, pi and e show up together, right? Just like e to the I pi is equal to negative 1. Tells you something about our universe. But anyway, I could rewrite this as e to the x minus mu over sigma squared, and all of that to the minus 1/2. Something in the minus 1/2 power-- that's just 1 over the square root, which is already going on here. So we could just rewrite this over here as 1 over the square root of 2 pi times the variance, times e to, essentially, our z-score squared, right? If we say z is this thing in here-- z is how many standard deviations we are from the mean-- z-score squared. And all of a sudden, this becomes a very clean-- we just say 2 pi times our variance, times e to the number of standard deviations we are away from the mean. You square that. You take the square root of that thing, and invert it, and that's the normal distribution. So anyway, I wanted to do that, just because I thought it was neat, and it's interesting to play around with it. And that way, if you see it in any of these other forms in the rest of your life, your won't say, what's that? I thought the normal distribution was this, or it was this. And now you know. But with that said, let's play around a little bit with this normal distribution. So in this spreadsheet, I've plotted normal distribution, and you can the assumptions that are in this kind of green-blue color. So right now it's plotting it with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 4. And I just write the variance here, just for your information. The variance is just a standard deviation squared. And so what happens when you change the mean? So if the mean goes from 0 to-- let's say it goes to 5. Notice, this graph just shifted to the right by 5, right? It was centered here. Now it's centered over here. If we make it minus 5, what happens? The whole bell curve just shifts 5 to the left from the center. Now, what happens when you change the standard deviation, right? The standard deviation is a measure of-- the variance is the average squared distance from the mean. The standard deviation is the square root of that. So it's kind of-- not exactly, but kind of-- the average distance from the mean. So the smaller the standard deviation, the closer a lot of the points are going to be to the mean. So we should get a narrower graph, and let's see if that happens. So when the standard deviation is 2, we see that. The graph you're more likely to be really close to the mean than further away. And if you make the standard deviation-- I don't know, if you make it 10-- all of a sudden, you get a really flat graph. And this thing keeps going on forever. And that's a key difference. The binomial distribution is always finite. You can only have a finite number of values, while the normal distribution is defined over the entire real number line. So the probability, if you have a mean of minus 5, and a standard deviation of 10, the probability of getting 1,000 here is very, very low, but there is some probability. There is some probability that I fall, that all of the atoms in my body just arrange perfectly, that I fall through the seat I'm sitting on. Its very unlikely, and it probably won't happen in the life of the universe, but it can happen. And that could be described by a normal distribution, because it says, anything can happen, although it could be very, very, very improbable. So the thing I talked about at the beginning of the video is, when you figure out a normal distribution, you can't just look at this point on the graph. Let me get the Pen tool back. You have to figure out the area under the curve between two points, right? Let's say this was our distribution, and I said, what is the probability that I get 0? I don't know what phenomenon this is describing, but that 0 happened. If I say exactly 0, the probability is 0, because-- I shouldn't use 0 too much-- because the area under the curve just under 0-- there's no area. It's just a line. You have to say between a range. So you have to say the probability between, let's say, minus-- and actually, I can type it in here on our-- I can say, the probability between, let's say, minus 0.005 and plus 0.05 is-- well, it rounded, so it says there, close to 0. Let me do it-- between minus 1 and between 1, all right? It calculated at 7%, and I'll show you how I calculated this in a second. So let me get the Screen Draw tool. So what did I just do? This between minus 1 and 1-- and I'll show you the behind the scenes what Excel is doing-- we're going from minus 1, which is roughly right here, to 1. And we're calculating the area under the curve, all right? We're calculating this area. Or, for those of you who know calculus, we're calculating the integral from minus 1 to 1 of this function, where the standard deviation is right here, is 10, and the mean is minus 5. And actually, let me put that in. So we're calculating for this example, the way it's drawn right here, the normal distribution function. Let's see. Our standard deviation is 10 times the square root of 2 pi, times e to the minus 1/2, times x minus our mean. Our mean is negative right now, right? Our mean is minus 5. So it's x plus 5 over the standard deviation squared, which is the variance. So that's 100 squared dx. This is what this number is right here. This 7%, or actually 0.07, is the area right under there. Now unfortunately, for us in the world, this isn't an easy integral to evaluate analytically, even for those of us who know our calculus. So this tends to be done numerically. And kind of an easy way to do this-- well, not an easy way-- but a function has been defined, called the cumulative distribution function, that is a useful tool for figuring out this area. So what the cumulative distribution function is, is essentially-- let me call it the cumulative distribution function-- it's a function of x. It gives us the area under this curve. So let's say that this is x right here. That's our x. It tells you the area under the curve up to x. Or so another way to think about it-- it tells you, what is the probability that you land at some value less than your x value? So it's the area from minus infinity to x of our probability density function, dx. When you actually use the Excel normal distribution function, you say, norm distribution. You have to give it your x value. You give it the mean. You give it the standard deviation. And then you say whether you want the cumulative distribution, in which case, you say true, or you want just this normal distribution, which you say, false. So if you wanted to graph this right here, you would say FALSE, in caps. If you wanted to graph the cumulative distribution function, which I do down here-- let me move this down a little bit. Let me get out of the Pen tool. So the cumulative distribution function is right over here. Then you say true when you make that Excel call. So this is a cumulative distribution function for this same-- this is a normal distribution. Here's a cumulative distribution. And just so you get the intuition, is, if you want to know, what is the probability that I get a value less than 20, right? So I can get any value less than 20, given this distribution. The cumulative distribution right here-- let me make it so you can see the-- if you go to 20, you just go right to that point there. And you say, wow, the probability of getting 20 or less-- it's pretty high. It's approaching 100%. That makes sense, because most of the area under this curve is less than 20. Or if you said, what's the probability of getting less than minus 5? Well, minus 5 was the mean, so half of your results should be above that, and half should be below. And if you go to this point right here, you can see that this right here is 50%. So the probability of getting less than minus 5 is exactly 50%. If I wanted to know the probability of getting between negative 1 and 1, what I do is-- let me get back to my Pen tool-- what I do is, I figure out, what is the probability of getting minus 1 or lower, right? So I figure out this whole area. And then I figure out the probability of getting 1 or lower, which is this whole area-- well, let me do it in a different color-- 1 or lower is everything there. And I subtract the yellow area from the magenta area. And I'll just get what's ever left over here, right? And that's exactly what I did in the spreadsheet. Let me scroll down. This might be taxing my computer by taking the screen capture with it. So what I did is I evaluated the cumulative distribution function at 1, which would be right there. And I evaluated the cumulative distribution function at minus 1, which is right there. And the difference between these two-- I subtract this number from this number, and that tells me, essentially, the probability that I'm between those two numbers. Or another way to think about it-- the area right here. And I really encourage you to play with this, and explore the Excel formulas and everything. This area right here, between minus 1 and 1. Now, one thing that shows up a lot is, what's the probability that you land within a standard deviation of-- and just so you know this graph, the central line right here-- this is the mean. And then these two lines I drew right here-- these are one standard deviation below, and one standard deviation above the mean. And some people think, what's the probability that I land within one standard deviation of the mean? Well, that's easy to do. What I can do is, I'll just click on this. What's the probability that I land between-- let's see. The mean is minus 5. One standard deviation below the mean is minus 15. And one standard deviation above the mean is 10 plus minus 5 is 5. So that's between 5 and 15. So 68.3%, and that's actually always the case that you have a 68.3% probability of landing within one standard deviation of the mean, assuming you have a normal distribution. So once again, that number represents the area under the curve here, this area under the curve. And the way you get it is with the cumulative distribution function. Let me go down here. Every time I move this, I have to get rid of the Pen tool. You evaluate it at plus 5, which is right here, right? This was one standard deviation above the mean, which-- it's a number right around there. Looks like it's like, I don't know, 80-something percent, maybe 90%, roughly. And then you evaluate it at one standard deviation below the mean, which is minus 15. And this one looks like, I don't know, roughly 15% or so? 15%, 16%, maybe 17%? Let's say 18%. But the big picture is, when you subtract this value from this value, you get the probability that you land between those two. And that's because this value tells a probability that you're less than. So when you go to the cumulative distribution function, you get that right there. That tells a probability that you are-- let me get-- it keeps crawling back and forth. So when you go to 5, and you just go right over here, this essentially tells you this area under the curve-- the probability that you're less than or equal to 5. Everything up there. And then when you evaluate it at minus 15 down here, it tells you the probability that you're down back here. So when you subtract this from the larger thing, you're just left with what's under the curve right there. And just to understand this spreadsheet a little bit better, just because I really want you to play with it, and move the-- see what happens if I make this distribution. The mean was minus 5. Now let me make it 5. It just shifted to the right. It just moved over to the right by 5, right? Whoops. I'll use the Pen tool. If I were to try to make the standard deviation smaller, we'll see that the whole thing just gets a little bit tighter. Let's make it 6, and all of a sudden, this looks a little bit tighter curve. We make it two, it becomes even tighter. And just so you know how I calculated everything-- and I really want you to play with this, and play with the formula. And get an intuitive feeling for this, the cumulative distribution function. And think a lot about how it relates to the binomial distribution. And I cover that in the last video. To plot this, I just took each of these points. I went to plot the points between minus 20 and 20, and I just incremented by 1, right? I just decided to increment by 1. It's not a continuous curve. It's actually just plotting a point at each point, and connecting it with a line. Then I did the distance between each of those points and the mean, right? Let's say that this 0 minus 5-- this is this distance. So this just tells you, the point minus 20 is 25 less than the mean, right? That's all I did there. Then I divided that by the standard deviation. And this is the standard z-score, right? So this tells me how many standard deviations is minus 20 away from the mean. It's 12 and 1/2 standard deviations below the mean. And then I use that, and I just plugged it into, essentially, this formula, to figure out the height of the function. So let's say, at minus 20, the height is very low. Well, let's say, at minus 2, the height's a little bit better. The height's going to be someplace right there. And so that gives me that value. But then to actually figure out the probability of that-- what I do is, I calculate the cumulative distribution function between-- well, this is the probability that you're less than that, so the area under the curve below that, which is very, very small. It's not 0. I know it looks like 0 here, but that's only because I round it. It's going to be 0.0001. It's going to be a really, really small number. There's some probability that we even get minus 1,000. And another intuitive thing that you really should have a sense for is, the integral over this, or the entire area of the curve, has to be 1, because that takes into account all possible circumstances. And that should happen if we put a suitably small number here, and a suitably large number here. There you go. We get 100%, although this isn't 100%. We would have to go from minus infinity to plus infinity to really get 100%. It's just rounding to 100%. It's probably 99.999999%, or something like that. And so to actually calculate this, what I do is, I take the cumulative distribution function of this point, and I subtract from that the cumulative distribution function of that point. And that's where I got this 100% from. Anyway, hopefully that'll give you a good feel for the normal distribution. And I really encourage you to play with the spreadsheet, and to even make a spreadsheet like this yourself. And in a future exercise, we'll actually use this type of a spreadsheet as an input into other models. So if we're doing a financial model, and if we say our revenue has a normal distribution around some expected value, what is the distribution of our net income? Or we could think of 100 other different types of examples. Anyway, see you in the next video.










Probability Exponential Distribution Problems | The Organic Chemistry Tutor (YouTube - 10:06)Links to an external site. 


in this video we're gonna focus on solving probability exponential distribution problems so let's start with this one number 1 laptops produce by company XYZ class on average for five years the lifespan of each laptop follows an exponential distribution Part A calculate the rate parameter the rate parameter is represented by the symbol lambda now in order to calculate the rate parameter we need to know what mu is in this case the average the average is five years now the rate printer excuse me the rate parameter rather it's 1 over lambda so that's going to be 1 over 5 1 divided by 5 is point 20 and the units is going to be years to the minus 1 so that's how we can calculate the rate parameter it's a very straightforward now Part B invite the probability density function and then we'll graph it the probability density function is represented by f of X and f of X is equal to the rate parameter lambda times e raised to the negative lambda times X now keep in mind he is a number it's approximately 2.71828 so now replacing lambda with point 20 we have the function point 20 e to the negative point 20 X and so this right here is the probability density function or you could say the PDF for short now we need to graph it so I'm going to do that on the right side the graph is going to start from the y-axis and it's going to decrease over time now the y-intercept is the rate parameter so that's going to be 0.1 and you could confirm this using the signs of the calculator if you plug in zero into this function e to the 0 is 1 and then it's gonna be 1 times point 20 which is point 20 anything raised to the 0 power is always 1 now let's move on to Part C what is the probability that a laptop will last less than 3 years so let's say 3 is right here to determine the probability we need to calculate the area under the curve from 0 to 3 or to the left of 3 now let me just get rid of some stuff here hopefully you wrote that down but if you need to you can pause the video and just rewind and write when you need to right now the area on the left side can be calculated using this formula so the probability that X is less than X is going to be 1 minus e raised to the negative lambda times X so we want to find a probability that X is less than 3 so it's going to be 1 minus e raised to the negative point 20 times 3 which is 0.2 times 3 is 0.6 so that's 1 minus e raised to the negative 0.6 go ahead and type that in and so you should get 0.45 1/2 for the answer so there's a 45 point 12% chance that the laptop will last less than three years Part D what is the probability that a laptop will last more than 10 years so let's say 10 is right here in this case we need to find the area to the right to do that we could use this formula the probability that X is greater than X and it's just going to be e to the negative lambda times X so the probability that X is greater than 10 is e negative point 20 times 10 and negative 0.2 times 10 that's negative 2 so it's just e to the minus 2 and so you should get a point 1 3 5 3 so that's the answer or you could say there is a 13 point 53% chance that a laptop will last more than 10 years that is a laptop issued by a company XYZ now let's move on to Part II what is the probability that a laptop will last between four and seven years go ahead and try that one so what do you think we need to do for Part II so first let's write out what we know we need to calculate the probability that X is between 4 & 7 and this really is just the difference between the probability that X is less than 7 and the probability let me write this better that X is less than 4 so let's get rid of this picture so if you want to visually see it the probability that X is less than 7 let's say this is 7 right here would be the area to the left of 7 and the probability that X is less than 4 looks like this so the difference let's say here seven if you take away four from seven you're left with three you can be left with this area here and that is what we're looking for so we're going to get this answer so hopefully you can see that visually so now let's go ahead and finish this problem so the probability that X is less than 7 now just review we're going to use this formula it's 1 minus e to the negative lambda times X so this is going to be 1 minus e to the negative point 20 times 7 and the probability that X is less than 4 is going to be 1/2 minus e to the negative point 20 times 4 so the first one is going to be 1 minus e point 20 times 7 we know 2 times 7 is 14 so 0.2 times 7 is 1.4 so it's 1 minus e to the negative 1.4 so the first part is zero point seven five three four zero now for the second part point 20 times four two times four is eight so point 20 times four is point eighty so there's 1 minus e to the negative point eighty and you should get zero point five five zero six seven now all we need to do at this point is we need to take the difference of these two numbers so 0.75 three four minus point five five zero six seven and so the answer is going to be point two zero 273 so we could say this is approximately a twenty point two seven percent chance or you say twenty point three so there's a twenty point three percent chance that a laptop issued by company XYZ will last between four and seven years and so that's how you can solve a few basic probability exponential distribution problems that's basically it for this video so if you haven't already please subscribe to this channel thanks again for watching









Continuous Probability Distributions - Basic Introduction | The Organic Chemistry Tutor (YouTube - 10:12)Links to an external site. 


in this video we're gonna talk about continuous probability distributions so here's an example of a type of continuous probability distribution this one is called the normal distribution now it has the continuous random variable X X could be anything it could be 2 it could be 3 point 5 it could be 4 point 6 8 it could be anything along the x axis now if we had discrete random variables X will have restrictions it could be like 1 2 3 4 5 but when dealing with continuous random variables X could be anything they could take on any value now on the y axis we have the function f of X which is also known as the PDF which stands for the probability density function now f of X will tell us the height of the curve above the x-axis at some point X so f of X will give us the distance between these two points now let's put some letters here let's call this a B C and D we're gonna use that shortly but one thing I do want to mention is that the total area under the curve for a continuous probability distribution is always equal to 1 so the area of the shaded region highlighted in blue that's equal to 1 so I'm going to write C a for the total area that's 1 let's say if we wish to calculate the probability that X is less than a how would you do it what you need to do is calculate the area under the curve of everything to the left of a so it's going to be the area of the region shaded in red likewise if we wish to calculate the probability that X is between B and C what we need to do is we need to determine the area under the curve between B and C likewise if we wish to calculate the probability that X is greater than D we need to calculate the area under the curve to the right of D so the probability is always equal to the area under the curve when dealing with a continuous probability distribution function I keep in mind that f of X is always positive it's greater than equal to 0 for all X so for a continuous probability distribution you won't see the curve under the x-axis it's always above the x-axis now here's a question for you what is the probability that X is equal to B what would you say now here we don't have a range of values we simply have just the line at B and for a line like that the area is zero because there's no whiff you only have height for no whiff if you try to calculate the area of a rectangle that only has hype or no if it's nothing so whenever you try to calculate the area of a finite point it's going to be zero the only way you're gonna get a value above zero is you need to X has to have a range of values it can't have a single value so just keep that in mind now another thing that you want to keep in mind let's say if you wish to calculate the probability that X is less than a this is the same as the probability that X is less than or equal to a because the probability that X is equal to a is zero so less than or less than and equal to it's going to be the same so let's say if we want to calculate the probability that X is between B and C this is the same as a probability that X is equal to or greater than B but less than or equal to C so those are some other things that you want to keep in mind when dealing with continuous probability distribution functions now we briefly talked about the shape of the normal distribution there are some other continuous probability distributions you need to be familiar with the next one is the uniform distribution the uniform distribution has a constant f of X value as you can see and it ranges from A to B now the area of the curve under the uniform distribution well basically the area of the rectangle is going to be 1 so let's say we have a uniform distribution from let's say 2 to 6 so a is 2 B is 6 if the area of the rectangle is 1 what is f of X what is the value that corresponds to that point well we know the base of the rectangle is 4 4 times what number is 1 because the area has to be 1 it's going to be 1 over 4 so that is going to be the value of f of X for this problem for uniform distribution because if he multiplied 1/4 by 4 you get an area of 1 and so for any uniform distribution the area under the curve has to be 1 so just keep that in mind so now I want to give you some formulas that you need to know when dealing with the uniform distribution so for uniform distribution from A to B X will vary between a and B the probability density function f of X is simply 1 over B minus a in a last example if you were to plug in a and B where B is 6 a is 2 you would get the function f of X is 1 over 4 so that's how you would incorporate this formula to calculate the probability density function for a uniform distribution now the next thing you need to know is that the mean is equal to the average of a and B so it's the sum of a and B divided by 2 and X is a standard deviation that looks like theta but it should be Sigma the standard deviation is the difference between B minus a divided by the square root of 12 so those are some formulas that you Blaine want to write down when dealing with the uniform distribution which is one of the types of continuous probability distributions that you need to know now the next distribution that we're going to talk about is known as the exponential distribution this is another continuous probability distribution that you want to add to your list so it has a y-intercept and then the function decreases over time or with X we have f of X on the y axis and the y-intercept is lambda the rate parameter the probability density function is f of X is equal to lambda e to the negative lambda times X lambda the rate parameter is 1 / the mean so those are some things that you want to know for this type of function and keep in mind a total area under the curve for this one or any type of continuous probability distribution function it's always going to be one I had to erase a few things but let's say if we have this point X and we wish to calculate the probability that X is less than X so that is the area shaded in blue the formula for that to calculate the area under the curve of that region it's going to be 1 minus e to the negative lambda times X now if we want to calculate the probability that X is greater than X it's simply e to the negative lambda times X in this case that would represent the region under the curve to the right so those are some other formulas that you want to know if you need to calculate the probability or the area under the curve










Deriving the Mean and Variance of a Continuous Probability Distribution | JBstatistics (YouTube - 7:21)Links to an external site. 


let's look at deriving the mean and variance for continuous probability distributions this does require some calculus and I'm going to assume that you are familiar with basic integration suppose for a random variable X the PDF f ofx is equal to 1 60 * X cubed when X is between 2 and 4 and Zer otherwise let's take a look at what that looks like here's the PDF plotted out this curve is 1 60 * X cubed between 2 and 4 and then it drops to zero outside of that range of values suppose the point of interest for us is finding the mean and variance of this probability distribution here I've written out the PDF and we're looking for the mean of the probability distribution I've written out the expectation of X here which is another name for Mu the mean of the distribution for a continuous random variable the expectation of X is equal to the integral from minus infinity to Infinity of x * F ofx DX here we're going to integrate x * 1 60 x Cub DX but we're not going to integrate this between minus infinity and infinity because this is only the PDF between 2 and 4 outside of 2 and 4 it's zero so we integrate this between 2 and 4 because the integral from minus infinity to 2 is zero and from 4 to Infinity is also zero this is going to be equal to 1/ 60 time the integral from 2 to 4 of x to 4th power DX this is equal to 1/ 60 * when we integrate x 4th we get X 5th over 5 and we need to evaluate that between 2 and 4 so if we come up here this is going to be equal to 1/ 60 * 4 5th power over 5 - 2 to the 5th power over 5 and this works out to 992 over 300 and in reduced form if we were to reduce that we'd see that this is 248 over 75 which is approximately 3.3 and that is the mean of the distribution if we go back to our plot of the PDF we' have three right in the middle here and we would see that values near Four are more likely than values near near two and that draws the mean over here to about 3.3 that's our mu our mean of this probability distribution now let's derive the variance of this probability distribution the variance Sigma s is equal to the expectation of xus mu ^ 2 the average squared distance from the mean and to find this expectation we simply take this function and multiply it by the PDF and integrate over the possible values of X we could go ahead and find our variance in this manner we could Square this out and carry out the integration and find our variance like this however it is a little bit easier if we use a very handy relationship here in that the expectation of xus mu^ SAR is equal to the expectation of the square of x minus the expectation of X all squared this is a very handy relationship that we use in a lot of spots it might not be obvious that this is true just looking at it but it can be shown simply by squaring this out and using some properties of expectation now one of the reasons why this is easier is that we've already found this value so when we're finding the mean and then the variance we've found this one already so the question boils down to finding the expected value of the square of X so let's go ahead and find this the expectation of the square of X is going to be equal to the integral from minus infinity to Infinity of x^2 * FX DX and this is going to be equal to the integral of x^2 * 1 60 x cubed DX but again using a similar argument to the last time it's only this in between two and four and outside of that range of values it's zero so we integrate this function between 2 and 4 and this is equal to 1 60 * the integral from 2: 4 of x to the 5th power DX and if we carry out this integration we're going to get 1/ 60 * the integral of x 5th power which is going to be x to the 6/ 6 and we're going to be evaluating that between 2 and 4 and so this is equal to 1 60 * 4 6/ 6 - 2 6/ 6 and this works out to 4,032 2 over 360 and if we reduce that we'd see that's equal to 56 over 5 and recall again what we just found was the expectation of the square of X now let's go ahead and find the variance of this distribution the variance of the distribution which is equal to the expectation of x - mu^ 2 is also equal to the expectation of x^2 minus the expectation of X all squar and we found these values we just found that the expectation of x^2 is 56 over 5 and previously we found that the expectation of X is 248 over 75 that's what we found first and we're squaring that and this if we work that out is equal to 1496 over 5625 which is approximately to three decimal places anyway 0.266 and that's how we go about deriving the mean and variance of any continuous probability distribution


