Covariance and the Regression Line | Regression | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 15:07)Links to an external site. 


What I want to do in this video is introduce you to the idea of the covariance between two random variables. And it's defined as the expected value of the distance-- or I guess the product of the distances of each random variable from their mean, or from their expected value. So let me just write that down. So I'll have X first, I'll do this in another color. So it's the expected value of random variable X minus the expected value of X. You could view this as the population mean of X times-- and then this is a random variable y-- so times the distance from Y to its expected value or the population mean of y. And if it doesn't make a lot of intuitive sense yet-- well, one, you could just always kind of think about what it's doing play around with some numbers here. But the reality is it's saying how much they vary together. So you always take an X and a y for each of the data points. Let's say you had the whole population. So every X and Y that kind of go together with each other that are coordinate you put into this. And what happens is-- let's say that X is above its mean when Y is below its mean. So let's say that in the population you had the point. So one instantiation of the random variables you sample once from the universe and you get X is equal to 1 and that Y is equal to-- let's say Y is equal to 3. And let's say that you knew ahead of time, that the expected value of X is 0. And let's say that the expected value of Y is equal to 4. So in this situation, what just happened? Now we don't know the entire covariance, we only have one sample here of this random variable. But what just happened here? We have one minus-- so we're just going to calculate, we're not going to calculate the entire expected value, I just want to calculate what happens when we do what's inside the expected value. We'll have 1 minus 0, so you'll have a 1 times a 3 minus 4, times a negative 1. So you're going to have 1 times negative 1, which is negative 1. And what is that telling us? Well, it's telling us at least for this sample, this one time that we sampled the random variables X and Y, X was above it's expected value when Y was below its expected value. And if we kept doing this, let's say for the entire population this happened, then it would make sense that they have a negative covariance. When one goes up, the other one goes down. When one goes down, the other one goes up. If they both go up together, they would have a positive variance or they both go down together. And the degree to which they do it together will tell you the magnitude of the covariance. Hopefully that gives you a little bit of intuition about what the covariance is trying to tell us. But the more important thing that I want to do in this video is to connect this formula. I want to connect to this definition of covariance to everything we've been doing with least squared regression. And really it's just kind of a fun math thing to do to show you all of these connections, and where, really, the definition of covariance really becomes useful. And I really do think it's motivated to a large degree by where it shows up in regressions. And this is all stuff that we've kind of seen before, you're just going to see it in a different way. So this whole video, I'm just going to rewrite this definition of covariance right over here. So this is going to be the same thing as the expected value of-- and I'm just going to multiply these two binomials in here. So the expected value of our random variable X times our random variable Y minus-- well, I'll just do the X first. So plus X times the negative expected value of Y. So I'll just say minus X times the expected value of Y. And that negative sign comes from this negative sign right over here. And then we have minus expected value of X times Y, just doing the distributive property twice, and then finally you have the negative expected value of X times a negative expected value of Y. And the negatives cancel out. And so you're just going to have plus the expected value of X times the expected value of Y. And of course, it's the expected value of this entire thing. Now let's see if we can rewrite this. Well the expected value of the sum of a bunch of random variables, or the sum and difference of a bunch of random variables, is just the sum or difference of their expected value. So this is going to be the same thing. And remember, expected value, in a lot of contexts, you could view it as just the arithmetic mean. Or, in a continuous distribution, you could view it as a probability weighted sum or probability weighted integral, either way. We've seen it before, I think. So let's rewrite this. So this is equal to the expected value of the random variables X and Y. X times Y. Trying to keep them color-coded for you. And then we have minus X times the expected value of Y. So then we're going to have minus the expected value of X times the expected value of Y. Stay with the right colors. Then you're going to have minus the expected value of this thing-- I'll close the parentheses-- of this thing right over here. Expected value of X times Y. I know this might look really confusing with all the embedded expected values. But one way to think about is the things that already have the expected values, you can view these as numbers. You've already used them as knowns. We're actually going to take them out of the expected value, because the expected value of an expected value is the same thing as the expected value. Actually let me write this over here, just remind ourselves. The expected value of X is just going to be the expected value of X. Think of it this way. You could view this as the population mean for the random variable. So that's just going to be a known, it's out there, it's in the universe. So the expected value of that is just going to be itself. If the population mean, or the expected value of X is 5-- this is like saying the expected value of 5. Well the expected value of 5 is going to be 5, which is the same thing as the expected value of X. Hopefully that makes sense, we're going to use that in a second. So we're almost done. We did the expected value of this and we have one term left. And then the final term, the expected value of this guy. And here, we can actually use a property right from the get go. I'll write it down. So the expected value of-- get some big brackets up-- of this thing right over here. Expected value of X times the expected value of Y. And let's see if we can simplify it right here. So this is just going to be the expected value of the product of these two random variables. I'll just leave that the way it is. So let me just-- the stuff that I'm going to leave the way it is I'm just going to freeze them. So the expected value of XY. Now what do we have over here? We have the expected value of X times-- once again, you can kind of view it if you go back to what we just said-- is this is just going to be a number, expected value of Y, so we can just bring this out. If this was the expected value of 3X, would be the same thing as 3 times the expected value of X. So we can rewrite this as negative expected value of Y times the expected value of X. You can kind of view this as we took it out of the expected value, we factored it out. So just like that. And then you have minus. Same thing over here. You can factor out this expected value of X. Minus the expected value of X times the expected value of Y. This is getting confusing with all the E's laying around. And then finally, the expected value of this thing, of two expected values, well that's just going to be the product of those two expected values. So that's just going to be plus-- I'll freeze this-- expected value of X times the expected value of Y. Now what do we have here? We have expected value of Y times the expected value of X. And then we are subtracting the expected value of X times the expected value of Y. These two things are the exact same thing. Right? So this is going to be-- and actually look at this. We're subtracting it twice and then we have one more. These are all the same thing. This is the expected value of Y times the expected value of X. This is the expected value of Y times the expected value of X, just written in a different order. And this is the expected value of Y times the expected value of X. We're subtracting it twice and then we're adding it. Or, one way to think about it is that this guy and that guy will cancel out. You could have also picked that guy and that guy. But what do we have left? We have the covariance of these two random variables. X and Y are equal to the expected value of-- I'll switch back to my colors just because this is the final result-- the expected value of X times the expected value of the product of XY minus-- what is this? The expected value of Y times the expected value of X. Now you can calculate these expected values if you know everything about the probability distribution or density functions for each of these random variables. Or if you had the entire population that you're sampling from, whenever you take an instantiation of these random variables. But let's say you just had a sample of these random variables. How could you estimate them? Well, if you were estimating it, the expected value, and let's say you just have a bunch of data points, a bunch of coordinates. And I think you'll start to see how this relates to what we do with regression. The expected value of X times Y, it can be approximated by the sample mean of the products of X and Y. This is going to be the sample mean of X and Y. You take each of your XY associations, take their product, and then take the mean of all of them. So that's going to be the product of X and Y. And then this thing right over here, the expected value of Y that can be approximated by the sample mean of Y, and the expected value of X can be approximated by the sample mean of X. So what can the covariance of two random variables be approximated by? What can it be approximated by? Well this right here is the mean of their product from your sample minus the mean of your sample Y's times the mean of your sample X's. And this should start looking familiar. This should look a little bit familiar, because what is this? This was the numerator. This right here is the numerator when we were trying to figure out the slope of the regression line. So when we tried to figure out the slope of the regression line, we had the-- let me just rewrite the formula here just to remind you-- it was literally the mean of the products of each of our data points, or the XY's, minus the mean of Y's times the mean of the X's. All of that over the mean the X squareds. And you could even view it as this, over the mean of the X times the X's. But I could just write the X squareds, over here, minus the mean of X squared. This is how we figured out the slope of our regression line. Or maybe a better way to think about it, if we assume in our regression line that the points that we have were a sample from an entire universe of possible points, then you could say that we are approximating the slope of our aggression line. And you might see this little hat notation in a lot of books. I don't want you to be confused. They are saying that you're approximating the population's regression line from a sample of it. Now, this right here-- so everything we've learned right now-- this right here is the covariance, or this is an estimate of the covariance of X and Y. Now what is this over here? Well, I just said, you could rewrite this very easily as-- this bottom part right here-- you could write as the mean of X times X-- that's the same thing as X squared-- minus the mean of X times the mean of X, right? That's what the mean of X squared is. Well, what's this? Well, you could view this as the covariance of X with X. But we've actually already seen this. And I've actually shown you many, many videos ago when we first learned about it what this is. The covariance of a random variable with itself is really just the variance of that random variable. And you could verify it for yourself. If you change this Y to an X, this becomes X minus the expected value of X times X minus expected value of X. Or that's the expected value of X minus the expected value of X squared. That's your definition of variance. So another way of thinking about the slope of our aggression line, it can be literally viewed as the covariance of our two random variables over the variance of X. Or you can kind of view it as the independent random variable. That right there is the slope of our regression line. Anyway, I thought that was interesting. And I wanted to make connections between things you see in different parts of statistics, and show you that they really are connected.










Introduction to the Multinomial Distribution | JBstatistics (YouTube - 11:14)Links to an external site. 

Let's continue our look at some discrete probability distributions with an introduction to the multinomial distribution. The multinomial distribution is a generalization of the binomial distribution. In the binomial distribution there are only two possible outcomes on any one individual trial, and we labeled those success and failure. In the multinomial distribution, the number of possible outcomes on any one given trial is allowed to be greater than 2. Let's take a look at an example. This is approximately the distribution of blood types in the United States. And suppose we wanted to know the answer to this question: In a random sample of 10 Americans what is the probability 6 have blood type O, 2 have type A, 1 has type B, and 1 has type AB? When any one individual person is sampled, they're going to have one of these four blood types, according to these probabilities. And we're going to be able to answer this question using the multinomial distribution. Suppose we have n independent trials, and each trial results in 1 of k mutually exclusive outcomes, and these k outcomes are exhaustive, so one of them is going to occur. On any single trial these k outcomes comes occur with probabilities p_1 through p_k. And since these outcomes are mutually exclusive and exhaustive, then they must sum to 1. We also need these probabilities to stay constant from trial to trial. We're going to let the random variable X_i represent the number of occurrences of outcome of i. And i is going to take on the values 1 through k, representing those k possible outcomes on any one individual trial. So we're going to have k random variables, representing a count for each of those possible outcomes. Then the probability the random variable X_1 takes on the value little x_1 and all the way up through the random variable X_k taking on the value little x_k is equal to what we have here. Over here on this side we have p_1, the probability of outcome 1 on any one individual trial, raised to the number of times that outcome 1 happens, and all the way up to here, which is the probability of outcome k occurring on any one individual trial, raised to the number of times we need outcome k to occur. And so what we have here is the probability of any one specific ordering of x_1 occurrences of outcome 1 and x_2 occurrences of outcome 2, all the way up through x_k occurrences of outcome k, and what we have over here is the number of possible orderings that give us x_1 occurrences of outcome 1, all the way up through x_k occurrences of outcome k. And so these multiplied together give us the probability of this happening. We really should list out the possible values of X here. The random variable X_1 can take on the possible values 0,1, 2, all the way up through n. And the same is true of X_2 and all the way up through X_k. So this is true for x_i equalling 0,1, all the way up though n. But we know that n things must happen in total, so the sum of all those individual occurrences, or i equalling 1 through k must equal n. And if we think about this a little bit, any one of these random variables, when viewed individually, it will have a binomial distribution. And if you remember our mean and variance for the binomial distribution, we can say that the expectation of X_i is going to be equal to n times p_i. And the variance of the random variable X_i is going to be equal to np_i times (1-p_i). And you might remember that from our discussion of the mean and variance the binomial distribution. Let's return to our example. In a random sample of 10 Americans, what is the probability 6 have blood type O, 2 have type A, 1 has type B, and 1 has type AB? Well, we've got a random sample here, so knowing one person's blood type is going to tell us nothing about the next person's blood type. So that independence assumption is pretty reasonable here. On any one individual trial, we are going to get one of these 4 blood types. and these probabilities are staying constant from trial to trial. So the multinomial distribution is reasonable here. And we want to find out the probability that the random variable X_1, which is representing the number of people in our sample that have blood type O, the probability that takes on the value 6, and our random variable X_2, representing the number with type A, that takes on the value 2, and X_3 takes on the value 1, and X_4 takes on the value 1. And this is going to be equal to n factorial, we've got a sample size 10, so 10! over x_1 factorial, that's just the number with type O and that's 6 factorial, times 2 factorial times, 1 factorial, times 1 factorial, and now it's time for these probabilities. the probability blood type O happens on any one individual person is 0.44. And we need that to happen 6 times, so we're going to raise that to the sixth power. And then we're going to multiply that by the probability of blood type A, 0.42, squared, because we needed that to happen twice, And then we are multiplying that by 0.10, blood type B, raised to the first power, we need that happen once, and then multiplying that by 0.04 raised to the first power. And if we calculate that, we would see that that is 0.01290, when rounded to five decimal places. Let's look at another example here. An urn contains eight red balls, three yellow balls, and nine white balls. Six balls are randomly selected with replacement. What is the probability 2 are red, 1 is yellow, and 3 are white? This "with replacement' is an important notion here. If we are putting the ball back in and shaking it all up and then randomly selecting again, then the individual trials are independent, and the probability of getting a red ball, or a yellow ball, or white ball, those probabilities are staying constant through the different trials. And so the conditions for our multinomial distribution are satisfied here. And we're interested here in the probability that the random variable X_1, which I'm going to let represent the number red balls, the probability the random variable X_1 takes on the value 2, And X_2, the number of yellow balls, takes on the value 1, and X_3, the number of white balls, takes on the value 3. And this is going to be equal to n factorial, so six factorial, over 2 factorial, the number red balls, times 1 factorial, the number of yellow balls, times 3 factorial, the number of white balls. And now to the probabilities. Well we have 8 red balls, and there is 8+3+9, 20 balls in total. So the probability of getting 1 red on any one individual trial is going to be the eight red balls out of the 20 total, and we need that to happen twice, so we're gonna square that. And then we're going to multiply that by the probability of getting a yellow ball on any one individual trial, which is 3 out of 20, raised to the first power, because we need that to happen once. And then times 9/20, getting a white ball on an individual trial, cubed, because that's got to happen three times. and that works out to 0.13122, to 5 decimal places. Had the sampling been done without replacement, then the trials would no longer be independent, and the conditions of the multinomial distribution would no longer be satisfied. We would have to use something called the multivariate hypergeometric distribution to calculate the probability in this case. And, what the heck, let's run through a quick example of that. Here we've got the same problem we just looked at, except I've changed with replacement to without replacement. And there's a fundamental difference there. When I say without replacement, what that means is, if we pull out a red ball, we're putting it aside and it doesn't go back in, and then we randomly select another ball. So if we draw a red ball out on the first trial, say, it's going to be less likely to get a red ball on the second trial, So those trials are no longer independent. We've still got our random variables X_1, X_2 and X_3. And we still want to know the probability that the random variable X_1, the number of red balls, takes on the value 2. And X_2, the number of yellow balls, takes on the value 1, and X_3, the white balls, takes on the value 3. And we're going to do this through the multivariate hypergeometric distribution. On the bottom, we're going to have the number of possible samples. And we are drawing six balls from a total of 20, there are 20 balls altogether. and from those 20 we are choosing 6, so the bottom is going to be the total number of possible samples. In the top, we're going to have the total number of samples that get us what we want. The total number of samples that get 2 red and 1 yellow and 3 white. And for that we're going to say, well we need to pick from those 8 red balls we need to choose 2, so 8 choose 2. And from the 3 yellow balls we need to pick 1, so times 3 choose 1. And from the 9 white balls, we need to pick 3. 8 choose 2, times 3 choose 1, times 9 choose 3, all divided by 20 choose 6. This is the number of ways of getting what we want, over the total number of possible samples of size 6 that can be chosen from 20. And this, if we work this out, to 5 decimal places is 0.18204. Note that's a little bit different from the probability we calculated when it was with replacement








Variance of Differences of Random Variables | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 10:46)Links to an external site. 

What I want to do in this video is build up some tools in our tool kit for dealing with sums and differences of random variables. So let's say that we have two random variables, x and y, and they are completely independent. They are independent random variables. And I'm just going to go over a little bit of a notation here. If we wanted to know the expected, or if we talked about the expected value of this random variable x, that is the same thing as the mean value of this random variable x. If we talk about the expected the value of y, that is the same thing as the mean of y. If we talk about the variance of the random variable x, that is it the same thing as the expected value of the squared distances between our random variable x and its mean. And that right there squared. So the expected value of these squared differences, and that you could also use the notation sigma squared for the random variable x. This is just a review of things we already know, but I just want to reintroduce it because I'll use this to build up some of our tools. So you do the same thing with this with random variable y. The variance of random variable y is the expected value of the squared difference between our random variable y and the mean of y, or the expected value of y, squared. And that's the same thing as sigma squared of y. There is the variance of y. Now you may or may not already know these properties of expected values and variances, but I will reintroduce them to you. And I won't go into some rigorous proof-- actually, I think they're fairly easy to digest. So one is is that if I have some third random variable, let's say I have some third random variable that is defined as being the random variable x plus the random variable y. Let me stay with my colors just so everything becomes clear. The random variable x plus the random variable y. What is the expected value of z going to be? The expected the value of z is going to be equal to the expected value of x plus y. And this is a property of expected values-- I'm not going to prove it rigorously right here-- but the expected value of x plus the expected value of y, or another way to think about this is that the mean of z is going to be the mean of x plus the mean of y. Or another way to view it is if I wanted to take, let's say I have some other random variable. I'm running out of letters here. Let's say I have the random variable a, and I define random variable a to be x minus y. So what's its expected value going to be? The expected value of a is going to be equal to the expected value of x minus y, which is equal to-- you could either view it as the expected value of x plus the expected value of negative y, or the expected value of x minus the expected value of y, which is the same thing as the mean of x minus the mean of y. So this is what the mean of our random variable a would be equal to. And all of this is review and I'm going to use this when we start talking about the distributions that are sums and differences of other distributions. Now let's think about what the variance of random variable z is and what the variance of random variable a is. So the variance of z-- and just to kind of always focus back on the intuition, it makes sense. If x is completely independent of y and if I have some random variable that is the sum of the two, then the expected value of that variable, of that new variable, is going to be the sum of the expected values of the other two because they are unrelated. If my expected value here is 5 and my expected value here is 7, completely reasonable that my expected value here is 12, assuming that they're completely independent. Now if we have a situation, so what is the variance of my random variable z? And once again, I'm not going do a rigorous proof here, this is really just a property of variances. But I'm going to use this to establish what the variance of our random variable a is. So if this squared distance on average is some variance, and this one is completely independent, it's squared distance on average is some distance, then the variance of their sum is actually going to be the sum of their variances. So this is going to be equal to the variance of random variable x plus the variance of random variable y. Or another way of thinking about it is that the variance of z, which is the same thing as the variance of x plus y, is equal to the variance of x plus the variance of random variable y. Hopefully that make some sense. I'm not proving it to you rigorously. And you'll see this in a lot of statistics books. Now what I want to show you is that the variance of random variable a is actually this exact same thing. And that's the interesting thing, because you might say, hey, why wouldn't it be the difference? We had the differences over here. So let's experiment with this a little bit. The variance-- so I'll just write this-- the variance of random variable a is the same thing as the variance of-- I'll write it like this-- as x minus y, which is equal to-- you could view it this way-- which is equal to the variance of x plus negative y. These are equivalent statements. So you could view this as being equal to-- just using this over here, the sum of these two variances, so it's going to be equal to the sum of the variance of x plus the variance of negative y. Now what I need to show you is that the variance of negative y, of the negative of that random variables are going to be the same thing as the variance of y. So what is the variance of negative y? The variance of negative y is the same thing as the variance of negative y, which is equal to the expected value of the distance between negative y and the expected value of negative y squared. That's all the variance actually is. Now what is the expected value of negative y right over here? Actually, even better let me factor out a negative 1. So what's in the parentheses right here, this is the exact same thing as negative 1 squared times y plus the expected value of negative y. So that's the same exact same thing in the parentheses, squared. So everything in magenta is everything in magenta here, and it is the expected value of that thing. Now what is the expected value of negative y? The expected value of negative y-- I'll do it over here-- the expected value of the negative of a random variable is just a negative of the expected value of that random variable. So if you look at this we can re-write this-- I'll give myself a little bit more space-- we can re-write this as the expected value-- the variance of negative y is the expected value-- this is just 1. Negative 1 squared is just 1. And over here you have y, and instead just write plus the expected value of negative y, that's the same thing as minus the expected value of y. So you have that, and then all of that squared. Now notice, this is the exact same thing by definition as the variance of y. So what we just showed you just now, so this is the variance of y. So we just showed you is that the variance of the difference of two independent random variables is equal to the sum of the variances. You could definitely believe this, it's equal to the sum of the variance of the first one plus the variance of the negative of the second one. And we just showed that that variance is the same thing as the variance of the positive version of that variable, which makes sense. Your distance from the mean is going to be-- it doesn't matter whether you're taking the positive or the negative of the variable. You just cared about absolute distance. So it makes complete sense that that quantity and that quantity is going to be the same thing. Now the whole reason why I went through this exercise, kind of the important takeaways here is that the mean of differences right over here-- so I could re-write it as the differences of the random variable is the same thing as the differences of their means. And then the other important takeaway, and I'm going to build on this in the next few videos, is that the variance of the difference-- if I define a new random variable is the difference of two other random variables, the variance of that random variable is actually the sum of the variances of the two random variables. So these are the two important takeaways that we'll use to build on in future videos. Anyway, hopefully that wasn't too confusing. If it was, you can kind of just accept these at face value and just assume that these are tools that you can use.










Moment Generating Functions - Example 1 | Lawrence Leemis (YouTube - 5:19)Links to an external site. 

Here is an example of using the moment generating function to generate moments. Use the moment generating function to find the expected value of x, the expected value of x^2 and the expected value of x cubed for the continuous random variable x with probability density function f ofx is equal to e the minus x on the support x greater than zero. So the first thing that's going to be done here is to find the moment generating function of x and that is m of t by definition is the expected value of e to the t * x. Now you know that that e to the t * x is going to show up right here. And so you will have the integral from 0 to infinity that is the support of the random variable x of e to the tx * the probability density function e minus x dx. Now here you have like base so you can add the exponents and in addition you can factor out an x. So you get e to the t -1 * x dx. Think for a minute about this integrant. If it is e to the let's say pos3 * x this integral is going to diverge. But on the other hand if it is e to the -3 * x then the integral will converge. So from that we have to throw in the assumption that t minus1 which is this coefficient out front of x has to be negative. Now you'll see in a minute why this comes into play. Um but it is an important detail and part of getting moment generating functions right is to get all the details right. So if this is indeed the case that we have an integral that does converge, you now can take and multiply inside the integral by tus1. Multiply outside the integral by 1 / tus1. And this integral becomes e to the t -1 * x evaluated between the limits 0 to infinity. When you plug in infinity and make this assumption e to the minus some negative number time infinity will give you zero. And when you plug in 0 you get e to the 0 which is 1. So you get 0 minus 1 which is - 1. And that negates this. So we get 1 / 1 - t as the moment generating function. Now one more thing to notice this t minus one is less than zero is the same as saying t is less than one if you add both uh one to both sides of that inequality. And I'm going to draw an axis here with t. And I'm going to put zero right here. And here is one. So our moment generating function is defined for all t values which are less than one. If you go back to the definition of a moment generating function and in fact I think I'll go back to that definition, you notice that we had to be defined on some interval between negative h and positive h. If that's the case, then we have a moment generating function. So, back to this problem. We can pick any H we want. It looks like the way I've drawn it here is I've got an H of about maybe 1/3 or so. It is defined in that neighborhood of zero. And because of that, this is a legitimate probability. I'm sorry, moment generating function. Now once we have the moment generating function 1 over 1 minus t I'll go ahead and write that up top here. And again don't forget to write where it is defined. You can take three derivatives of this. Here is the first derivative of that function. And here is the second derivative of that function. And here is the third derivative of that function. Then using our theorem, we plug in t=0. When you plug in t=0 to here, you get a 1. Plug in t=0 here, you get 2. Plug in t=0 here and you get six. This is the expected value of x. Expected value of x^2 and expected value of x cubed. And that's how you use a moment generating function. Notice if you wanted to calculate this expected value of x cubed in the usual fashion, you would integrate over the support of x cubed times the probability density function dx. And this is a big pain because you've got to use integration by parts three times over. Lots of uh opportunities for errors. Whereas this one generates all three of the moments very quickly by just plugging tals 0 into the derivatives.







Chebyshev's Theorem | The Organic Chemistry Tutor (YouTube - 12:49)Links to an external site. 


in this video we're gonna talk about Chevy chef's theorem and how we can apply it to solve a problem like the one we have on the board Chevy chef theorem gives you the minimum proportion of data that is within K standard deviations of the mean and to calculate the proportion you could use this formula 1 over 1 minus K squared and K has to be greater than 1 now let's analyze two different distributions on the Left what we have here is a normal distribution and on the right an unusual distribution Chevy chef's theorem works for any type of distribution it's an inequality it gives you the minimum amount of a portion or the minimum fortune of data that is within tastes and deviations of the mean so it doesn't give you the exact answer but it gives you a range of answers so let's say this is the mean and this is one standard deviation from the mean and we'll say this is two standard deviations and then three standard deviations from the mean now you could use the empirical formula to calculate the proportion of data that is within one standard deviation of the mean and that is 68% now within two standard deviations of the mean if you have a standard normal distribution it's 95% and within three standard deviations of the mean it's ninety-nine point seven percent now for the distribution on the right let's use chebyshev stir let's say this is the mean now you can't use it where k is equal to one so we're gonna start with two standard deviations so using this formula if we plug in two for K it's gonna be one minus 1 over 2 squared 2 squared is 4 so we get 1 minus 1 over 4 and 1 you can write that as 4 over 4 so this is equal to 3 over 4 or point 7 5 so what this means is that 75% of the data at least 75% of the data of the data lies between two standard deviations of the mean whereas for a normal distribution use the empirical rule 95% of the data lies within two standard deviations of the mean so I kind of want you to compare these two distributions in terms of how you can calculate the percentage of the distribution values that lie within a certain number of standard deviations of the mean now we'll see what the situation is if K is equal to 3 so this is going to be 1 over 3 squared which is 1 over 9 and 9 over 9 minus 1 over 9 that's 8 over 9 8 over 9 as a decimal is point 8 repeating or if you round it point 8 9 so this means that within 3 standard deviations of the mean at least 88.9% of the data is within this range whereas for a standard normal distribution using empirical rule 99.9% the data is within 3 standard deviations of the mean if you want to find out how much is within 4 standard deviations of a mean you just replace K with 4 so to run over is 1 minus 1 over 4 squared which is 1 over I mean 1 minus 1 over 16 so that's 15 over 16 which is 0.9 375 so at least 90 3.75 percent of the data would lie between 4 standard deviations so the action number can be higher but this is the the minimum value so now let's work on the problem at hand the average weight of individuals in City XYZ is 170 pounds with the stand deviation of 10 what is the minimum percentage of individuals willful weight between 145 pounds and 195 pounds in this city so we don't know what type of distribution that we have so we're gonna assume that it's a non-standard distribution so let's just draw a generic shape now we know that the average weight or we'll say the mean is a hundred and seventy pounds and we notice the a deviation is 10 now we want to determine the percentage of individuals the minimum percentage between a hundred and forty-five pounds and a hundred and ninety five pounds so basically we want to get the minimum area of the curve in this region now it's important to understand that this is the mean mu and this is mu plus K times the standard deviation and this is mu minus K times as the aviation and notice that the upper range is 25 pounds from the mean and the lower range is also 25 pounds 170 minus one forty five is twenty-five and 195 minus 170 is 25 so what that tells us is that K is the same for the upper and the lower part of this interval so what we need to do now is calculate K so k is gonna be X where this is the upper value of the interval minus the mean mu divided by theta for those of you who want to know how to get that X is equal to mu plus K times theta so first you got to move me over so it's gonna be X minus mu that equals K times theta and then divided by theta you get that K for the upper bound part of the interval is X minus mu over theta and for the lower bound you'll get the same answer because these two numbers are the same so let's calculate K so X is 195 pounds mu is 170 pounds and the stand VA ssin is 10 so 195 minus 170 that's 25 and 25 divided by 10 is 2.5 so this tells us that we want to find the minimum percentage of individuals within 2.5 standard deviations of the mean so now we need to use this formula 1 minus 1 over K squared so 1 minus 1 over 2 point 5 squared let me just plug this in so I get point 8 4 or 84% so what does that mean this means that at least 84 percent of individuals in this city will have a weight of or between 145 pounds and 195 pounds so this is the minimum value the actual answer could be 86 percent it could be 89 percent 95 percent but at least we know the minimum percentage of individuals with a weight between 145 and 195 pounds so now that we know how to use chebyshev's theorem to solve a problem like this let's move on to this second part of the problem if the city contains two hundred thousand residents what is the minimum amount of individuals with a weight between 140 and 200 pounds so once again the mean is right in the middle between these two numbers if you were to average a hundred one hundred forty and two hundred you would get 170 which means the minimum and the maximum value is both thirty units away from the mean so regardless if you were to use one forty or 200 your K value will be the same so let's calculate K using this formula so using the upper value of two hundred pounds and a mean of a hundred seventy pounds and a standard deviation of 10 this is going to be 30 over 10 which is stream so K history so we need to determine the percentage or rather the minimum percentage of individuals within three standard deviations of the mean so now we could use this formula and we know that this is gonna give us point eight eight nine so thus we can say that at least eighty eight point nine percent of individuals in City XYZ will have a weight between 140 and 200 pounds but now we don't want a minimum percentage we want a number a minimum amount of individuals and we know from the population of City XYZ so we need to determine the value of eighty eight point nine percent of 200,000 so to get that answer we just got a multiply point eight eight nine times 200,000 so we could say that at least a hundred seventy seven thousand eight hundred individuals in this city have a weight between a hundred forty pounds and two hundred pounds so if you want to write the answer in terms of a probability the probability that X is between 140 and 200 is 0.89 or rather we need to turn this into an inequality it's greater than or equal to point eight nine but the actual number of residents that have a weight between these two values is at least a hundred seventy seven thousand eight hundred it could be more than that but that's the the minimum value so that's it for this video hopefully I gave you a good introduction into Chevy chef's theorem and how to use it to solve problems



