Confidence Intervals and Margin of Error | AP Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 11:44)Links to an external site. 

- [Instructor] It is election season, and there is a runoff between candidate A versus candidate B. And we are pollsters. And we're interested in figuring out, well, what's the likelihood that candidate A wins this election? Well, ideally, we would go to the entire population of likely voters right over here, let's say there's 100,000 likely voters, and we would ask every one of the them, who do you support? And from that, we would be able to get the population proportion, which would be, this is the proportion that support, support candidate A. But it might not be realistic. In fact, it definitely will not be realistic to ask, well, all 100,000 people. So instead, we do the thing that we tend to do in statistics is, is that we sample this population, and we calculate a statistic from that sample in order to estimate this parameter. So let's say we take a sample right over here. So this sample size, let's say n equals 100. And we calculate the sample proportion that support candidate A. So out of the 100, let's say that 54 say that they're going to support candidate A. So the sample proportion here is 0.54. And just to appreciate that we're not always going to get 0.54, there could've been a situation where we sampled a different 100, and we would've maybe gotten a different sample proportion. Maybe in that one, we got 0.58. And we already have the tools in statistics to think about this, the distribution of the possible sample proportions we could get. We've talked about it when we thought about sampling distributions. So you could have the sampling distribution of the sample proportions, of the sample proportions, proportions. And it's going, this distribution's going to be specific to what our sample size is, for n is equal to 100. And so we can describe the possible sample proportions we could get and their likelihoods with this sampling distribution. So let me do that. So it would look something like this. Because our sample size is so much smaller than the population, it's way less than 10%, we can assume that each person we're asking, that it's approximately independent. Also, if we make the assumption that the true proportion isn't too close to zero or not too close to one, then we can say that, well, look, this sampling distribution is roughly going to be normal. So we'll have a normal, this kind of bell curve shape. And we know a lot about the sampling distribution of the sample proportions. We know already, for example, and if this is foreign to you, I encourage you to watch the videos on this on Khan Academy, that the mean of this sampling distribution is going to be the actual population proportion. And we also know what the standard deviation of this is going to be. So, let me, maybe that's one standard deviation. This is two standard deviations. That's three standard deviations above the mean. That's one standard deviation, two standard deviations, three standard deviations below the mean. So this distance, let me do this in a different color, this standard deviation right over here, which we denote as the standard deviation of the sample proportions, for this sampling distribution, this is, we've already seen the formula there. It's the square root of p times one minus p, where p is, once again, our population proportion divided by our sample size. That's why it's specific for n equals 100 here. And so in this first scenario, let's just focus on this one right over here, when we took a sample size of n equals 100 and we got the sample proportion of 0.54, we could've gotten all sorts of outcomes here. Maybe 0.54 is right over here. Maybe 0.54 is right over here. And the reason why I had this uncertainty is we actually don't know what the real population parameter is, what the real population proportion is. But let me ask you maybe a slightly easier question. What is, what is the probability, probability that our sample proportion of 0.54 is within, is within two times two standard deviations of p? Pause the video, and think about that. Well, that's just saying, look, if I'm gonna take a sample and calculate the sample proportion right over here, what's the probability that I'm within two standard deviations of the mean? Well, that's essentially going to be this area right over here. And we know, from studying normal curves, that approximately 95% of the area is within two standard deviations. So this is approximately 95%. 95% of the time that I take a sample size of 100 and I calculate this sample proportion, 95% of the time, I'm going to be within two standard deviations. But if you take this statement, you can actually construct another statement that starts to feel a little bit more, I guess we could say inferential. We could say there, there is a 95% probability that the population proportion p is within, within two standard deviations, two standard deviations of p-hat, which is equal to 0.54. Pause this video. Appreciate that these two are equivalent statements. If there's a 95% chance that our sample proportion is within two standard deviations of the true proportion, well, that's equivalent to saying that there's a 95% chance that our true proportion is within two standard deviations of our sample proportion. And this is really, really interesting because if we were able to figure out what this value is, well, then we would be able to create what you could call a confidence interval. Now, you immediately might be seeing a problem here. In order to calculate this, our standard deviation of this distribution, we have to know our population parameter. So pause this video, and think about what we would do instead. If we don't know what p is here, if we don't know our population proportion, do we have something that we could use as an estimate for our population proportion? Well, yes, we calculated p-hat already. We calculated our sample proportion. And so a new statistic that we could define is the standard error, the standard error of our sample proportions. And we can define that as being equal to, since we don't know the population proportion, we're going to use the sample proportion, p-hat times one minus p-hat, all of that over n. In this case, of course, n is 100. We do know that. And it actually turns out, I'm not going to prove it in this video, that this actually is an unbiased estimator for this right over here. So this is going to be equal to 0.54 times one minus 0.54, so it's 0.46, all of that over 100. So we have the square root of .54 times .46 divided by 100, close my parentheses, Enter. So if I round to the nearest hundredth, it's going to be, actually, even if I round to the nearest thousandth, it's going to be approximately 5/100. So this is going to be, this is approximately 0.05. So another way to say all of these things is, instead, we don't know exactly this, but now we have an estimate for it. So we could now say with 95% confidence, and that will often be known as our confidence level right over here, with 95% confidence between, between, and so we'd want to go two standard errors below our sample proportion that we just happened to calculate. So that would be 0.54 minus two times 5/100. So that would be 0.54 minus 10/100, which would be 0.44. And we'd also want to go two standard errors above the sample proportion. So that would be that plus 10/100. And 0.64 of voters, of voters support, support A. And so this interval that we have right over here, from 0.44 to 0.64, this will be known as our confidence interval, confidence interval. And this will change, not just in the starting point and the end point, but it will change the actual length of our confidence interval, will change depending on what sample proportion we happened to pick for that sample of 100. A related idea to the confidence interval is this notion of margin of error, margin of error. And for this particular case, for this particular sample, our margin of error, because we care about 95% confidence, so that would be two standard errors. So our margin of error here is two times our standard error, would just be 0.1 or 0.10. And so we're going one margin of error above our sample proportion right over here and one margin of error below our sample proportion right over here to define our confidence interval. And as I mentioned, this margin of error is not going to be fixed every time we take a sample. Depending on what our sample proportion is, it's going to affect our margin of error because that is calculated, essentially, with the standard error. Another interpretation of this is that the method that we used to get this interval right over here, the method that we used to get this confidence, to get this confidence interval, when we use it over and over, it will produce intervals, and the intervals won't always be the same. It's gonna be dependent on our sample proportion, but it will produce intervals which include the true proportion, which we might not know and often don't know. It'll include the true proportion 95% of the time. I'll cover that intuition more in future videos. We'll see how the interval changes, how the margin of error changes. But when you do this calculation over and over and over again, 95% of the time, your true proportion is going to be contained in whatever interval you happen to calculate that time. Now, another interesting question is, is, well, what if you wanted to tighten up the intervals on average? How would you do that? Well, if you wanted to lower your margin of error, the best way to lower the margin of error is if you increase this denominator right over here. And increasing that denominator means increasing the sample size. And so one thing that you will often see when people are talking about election coverage is, well, we need to sample more people in order to get a lower margin of error. But I'll leave you there, and I'll see you in future videos.







Introduction to T Statistics | Confidence Intervals | AP Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 4:25)Links to an external site. 


- [Instructor] We have already seen a situation multiple times where there is some parameter associated with a population, maybe it's the proportion of a population that supports a candidate, maybe it's the mean of a population. The mean height of all the people in the city. And we've determined that's it's unpractical or there's no way for us to know the true population parameter. But, we can try to estimate it by taking a sample size. So, we take n samples and then we calculate a statistic based on that. We've also seen that, not only can we calculate the statistic, which is trying to estimate this parameter, but we can construct a confidence interval about that statistic based on some confidence level. And so, that confidence interval would look something like this. It would be the value of the statistic that we have just calculated plus or minus some margin of error. And so, we'll often say this critical value, z, and this will be based on the number of standard deviations we want to go above and below that statistic. And so, then we'll multiply that times the standard deviation of the sampling distribution for that statistic. Now, what we'll see is we often don't know this. To know this, you oftentimes even need to know this parameter. For example, in the situation where the parameter that we're trying to estimate and construct confidence intervals for is say, the population proportion. What percentage of the population supports a certain candidate? Well, in that world, the statistic is the sample proportion. So, we would have the sample proportion plus or minus z star times, well we can't calculate this unless we know the population proportion, so instead we estimate this with the standard error of the statistic, which, in this case, is p hat times one minus p hat. The sample proportion times one minus the sample proportion over our sample size. If the parameter we're trying to estimate is the population mean, then our statistic is going to be the sample mean. So, in that scenario we're going to be looking at, our statistic is our sample mean plus or minus z star. Now, if we knew the standard deviation of this population, we would know what the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of our statistic is. It would be equal to the standard deviation of our population times the square root of our sample size. But, we often will not know this. In fact, it's very unusual to know this. And so, sometimes, you'll say, okay, if we don't know this, let's just figure out the sample standard deviation of our sample here. So, instead, we'll say, okay, let's take our sample mean plus or minus z star times the sample standard deviation of our sample, which we can calculate, divided by the square root of n. Now, this might seem pretty good if we're trying to construct a confidence interval for our sample, for our mean, but, it turns out, that this is not not so good because it turns out that this right over here is going to actually underestimate the actual interval, the true margin of error you need for your confidence level. And so, that's why statisticians have invented another statistic. Instead of using z, they call it t and instead of using a z-table, they use a t-table. Now, we're going to see this in future videos. And so, if you are actually trying to construct a confidence interval for a sample mean, and you don't know the true standard deviation of your population, which is normally the case, instead of doing this, what we're going to do is we're going to take our sample mean, plus or minus, and our critical value, we'll call that t star times our sample standard deviation, which we can calculate, divided by the square root of n. And so, the real, functional difference is that this actually is going to give us the confidence interval that actually has the level of confidence that we want. If we want a 95% level of confidence, if we keep computing this over and over again for multiple samples, that roughly 95% of the time, this interval will contain our true population mean. And, to functionally do it, and we'll do it in future videos, you really just have to look up a t-table instead of a z-table.








Confidence Interval for Mean in Excel Z & T (Summary Values) | Joshua Emmanuel (YouTube - 0:59)Links to an external site. 

Suppose you’re given summary data and you want to construct a confidence interval in Excel using the z-distribution. You can find the margin of error by using CONFIDENCE.NORM. For alpha, we use 1 minus confidence, comma, select the standard deviation, comma, and then the sample size. ENTER We can then find the lower limit by taking sample mean minus the margin of error and the upper limit by taking the sample mean, plus the margin of error. Now, if population standard deviation is unknown and we want to use the t distribution, we can simply replace sigma with s and change CONFIDENCE.NORM here to CONFIDENCE.T. Enter And that’s it.






Confidence Interval for Mean Using Excel’s Data Analysis Addin (T-Distribution) | Joshua Emmanuel (YouTube - 2:42)Links to an external site. 

Welcome! In this video, I will be constructing a confidence interval for these data using Data Analysis in Excel. The interval we will obtain will be based on the t-distribution. Click on the Data tab, and on the right here, you should see the Data Analysis command in the Analysis tab. If it’s not there, please see description for how to load Data Analysis in Excel. Click on Data Analysis Select Descriptive Statistics and click OK. For the input range, highlight the data. And because I selected the title, I’m going to check “Labels in first row”. For output range, I’m going to click in the field here, and click anywhere on the sheet where I want the output to be displayed. Select Summary statistics and select Confidence level. I’m going to leave it at 95% for now. And Click OK. Here we have the output. We have the mean, the standard error, the standard deviation, and at the bottom here we have the confidence level at 95%. The value obtained here (1.0478) is actually the margin of error. In other words, to calculate the lower confidence limit for the confidence interval, LCL, we just do ‘equal’ mean minus the margin error. And for the upper confidence limit, we do ‘equal’ mean + the margin of error. And that’s the confidence interval. We can do the same for a 99% confidence. Click Data Analysis > Descriptive Statistics, OK And here I’m just going to change the confidence level for the mean to 99. And for the output range I’m going to select another cell here and click OK. And here we have the margin of error for the 99% confidence interval. To obtain the limits, I’m just going to copy these formulas here and paste here. And those are the upper and lower limits for the 99% confidence interval. And that’s how to use Excel’s Data Analysis to construct confidence intervals for a sample based on the t-distribution. Thanks for watching.







Excel Statistics 86: Confidence Intervals for Proportions #2 | ExcelIsFun (YouTube - 4:51)Links to an external site. 


welcome to statistics in Excel video number 86 and if you want to download this workbook and follow along click on my youtube channel and click on my college subsonic and you can download the worker business 210 chapter a hey we're talking confidence intervals for proportions okay we have an advertising example here or promotion example Furnitureland South surveyed their customers N equals 600 to see if they like the new line of durable foam furniture decorated in bright colors 414 said they were excited about the new line all the binomial tests are met so the question is we want to build a well first calculate P our sample proportion and then calculate an interval so we can be pretty sure that it's within the two confidence limits alright let's calculate our P equals our number of successes divided by our sample size so 0.69 our sample proportion is the best estimate of course for our population parameter of course even though it's an estimate we need some room on either one because we know there's sampling error this very rarely if ever comes out to be exactly the population parameter let's scroll on down here a level of confidence we're going to be pretty sure about this one now in some of our earlier videos we use 1995 and here we're going to do 99 alpha means the risk that our population proportion will not be in our interval Wow is this one going to be low we're only willing to take a 1% chance now alpha divided by 2 wow that's like a half a percent so that 1 divided by 2 now we can calculate our z we've done this a number of times with a proportion we want it on the upper end all the way it works is all the way from negative infinity to wherever our value is so we'll give it a half of alpha here ah but one minus because if it always goes from negative infinity up to whatever that marking point is this half alpha a little bit on the top a little bit on the top when we plot it so one minus this will give us exactly the Z we want two point five seven now our standard error our square root and remember it's P times one minus P divided by n so we'll go up and get our P times in parentheses one minus our P oh I got a nine we've got to be careful like that that would be pretty big times 91 and then divided by and now as we've said a few times here n is right there the order of operation does this perfectly without putting parentheses around this whole thing like you'd have to do if you were doing it by hand all right so there we go our standard error is going to be point zero one but really what we're interested in is our margin of error which gets added subtracted and added to give us our interval so as we've seen a number of times it's always going to be our standard error times our Z you know whatever it is whether you're doing T distribution it would be T times the standard error I remember the standard error is just the term for whatever standard deviation for the sampling distribution you're talking about so our error is always going to be either Z or T times some standard error so we got it there margin of error and there it is that's the amount we have to subtract and add so let's get our intervals the first one will be 0.6 9 minus our margin of error and this one will be equals plus our margin of error and there it is the owner can be 99% sure that the population proportion that is the percentage of customers excited about the new product is between sixty four point one four and seventy three the margin of error is four point eight six and so the owner can probably be pretty sure that this is going to be a hit that means we can go get our durable form furniture decorate in bright colors all right we have one more video for this chapter coming up sample size alright see you next video







Perform a One Sample Proportion Test in Excel | ExcelTraining101.com (YouTube - 10:59)Links to an external site. 


[Music] hi in this film cover how to do a one sample proportion test in Excel unfortunately Excel doesn't have one of those built-in capabilities in the analysis toolpak if you had the data analysis toolpak here they have a letter a lot of other statistical tools that you can do like t-test but there isn't one for a one sample proportion test so how do we do it well we're gonna have to kind of do it manually and what we can do is start with a problem set up our hypothesis and use some of the functions in Excel to do this so our problem is let's say the number of households that have widget X is 52% so we go and survey 200 households and 150 of them have widget X so does this evidence this survey support the claim that 52% of households have widget X so how do we set up this hypothesis we're gonna say well the null hypothesis P equals point 52 or the mean in the way and the alternative hypothesis P hat does not equal point 52 and we'll use a 0.05 significance level so our alpha will be 0.05 so our P we're going to plug this in here and I've got these formula text so we can see what formula that we're using or function that we're using as I go through each cell so P is going to be zero point fifty two the number of successes those are 115 so we did 115 over our sample size 200 now in terms of doing a proportion test we do want to ensure that our sample size is large enough and there are calculations that you kind of want to use to look and see if the sample size is large enough but with here with the 200 sample size it's large enough for this example P hat is basically going to be our number successes over the sample size so it's going to be that divided by that let's see this is not working because there's no formula here this just looks like formula Tex and for alpha that's 0.05 so what is our numerator so we're gonna look at our Z test so it's P hat minus P so it's going to be equal to P hat minus P that's our numerator for our test statistic and for our denominator it's going to be the square root of P times 1 minus P divided by the sample size 200 that's going to give us point O 3 5 so what is our C statistic that is our numerator over our denominator that is this divided by that or in our test whoops let's see f8 over f7 was that right no sorry it was fs8 over f98 over f9 press enter and our z statistic is one point five five now what do we take from that well we have to compare it against the critical value so our critical value is based off of our significance level of 0.05 we're going to use the norm s inverse function and we're going to find out what is our Z critical value so that's going to be 0.025 now why do we do Oh to 5 because we are testing for a two-tailed test that's why we had that not equal sign I'll kind of show you what we're talking about I'm going to bring up a distribution curve later on to show you why we're using point L to 5 because basically we are taking this point O 5 dividing it by 2 because we have the right tail portion and the left tail portion included in this Z critical value so this is going to give us this particular function only give a left-tailed test you can see that it's negative so we're just going to put an absolute we're going to wrap that in the absolute function get rid of that nine and that will give us our Z value of 1.96 which if you done statistic for a while a point oh five significance level for a two-tailed test the Z critical value is going to be 1.96 and we see that our z statistic is below one point nine five therefore we do not reject the null hypothesis it does support this evidence does support the claim another way to kind of further solidify this test is to look at the p-values in addition to the comparison of the Z's statistics versus the Z critical value now with the different p-value and we can look at our different tests we're looking at this two-tailed test but I'll just go through the functions for each of the test p-values here the left tail right tail and our two tail here we're going to use the norm dot s test function and our Z value is our Z statistic and we're going to use the cumulative distribution function that's going to be true close parenthesis press enter and we have our left tail value of 0.9 for our right tail value we're going to use there is no function for the right tail value so what we're going to do is just do one minus kiss it's going to be the difference of that so everything everything under our curve should equal to 100% so I'll be one minus that it's going to give us a right tail so we do one minus norm the dist same thing where our Z is going to be our z statistic cumulative true close parenthesis press enter and then we've got a point O 597 now to do our two-tailed test that's basically our right tailed test twice when you think about it it's going to be the right tail part of the test and the left tail part of the test that's our two-tailed test so what we're going to do is just do to multiply and we're going to multiply that this value here right so it's going to be that one - the norm esta dysfunction of course our Z's statistic true for cumulative and we press ENTER it's gonna give us eleven point nine four and change and this is fine here because our Z statistic is not negative so if we wanted to ensure that if we put other numbers in here that turn our z statistic into a negative number maybe you want to wrap this on into an absolute function so it returns the positive of that so that's if we're going to use this kind of as a template and put other numbers in here but that basically is our two-tailed test and this is what we're going to use because we're looking at our hypothesis which is looking at a two-tailed test that number 0.1 1 is greater than 0.05 and so we still do not reject the null hypothesis so the evidence use the looking at our p-values still does support this claim now if we want to kind of look at this from a charting perspective let's add some calculations here this is going to look at the confidence interval so it's it's going to be P hat plus or minus the Z critical value multiplied by the standard deviation or standard deviation of the sampling distribution so in our lower case it so we're going to take P hat for our lower one minus the Z critical value put this into parentheses the Z critical value multiplied by the standard standard deviation of the sampling distribution which is our denominator down here close parenthesis press enter you got point 505 for our upper number that's going to be our P hat plus our z-score or is the critical value multiplied by our denominator denominator here which is our standard deviation of the sampling distribution press Enter and that's our upper area so after we figure out our lower and upper bound that that gives us basically our confidence interval if I just kind of want to look at this graphically I can go and just find a website for that to kind of plot it for me and so I just do normal distribution curve draw a plot line this one looks pretty good that I've tried you can see here if we're doing a two-tailed test we have our area of probabilities 0.05 right point two point zero two five on one right tail on point zero two five on the left tail the summation of that is going to be 0.05 now if I want to plug in my numbers here ctrl C to copy for the lower bound and let's put this over here the upper bound is 0.06 point six four and my mean here my sample proportion mean here and my standard deviation here ctrl C to copy ctrl V to paste if I recalculate that we are going to be given our 0.05 which explains our significance level right so graphically that's how it's going to look but that's just some extra information that you can add on there if you wanted to so that's how we can perform a one sample proportion test in Excel and unfortunately there's not a quick and easy way to do it using the data analysis toolpak like they have for other statistical functions but if we have it laid out we can probably just perform our test here so I hope that helps [Music]



