Probability Density Functions | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 10:01)Links to an external site. 

In the last video, I introduced you to the notion of-- well, really we started with the random variable. And then we moved on to the two types of random variables. You had discrete, that took on a finite number of values. And the these, I was going to say that they tend to be integers, but they don't always have to be integers. You have discrete, so finite meaning you can't have an infinite number of values for a discrete random variable. And then we have the continuous, which can take on an infinite number. And the example I gave for continuous is, let's say random variable x. And people do tend to use-- let me change it a little bit, just so you can see it can be something other than an x. Let's have the random variable capital Y. They do tend to be capital letters. Is equal to the exact amount of rain tomorrow. And I say rain because I'm in northern California. It's actually raining quite hard right now. We're short right now, so that's a positive. We've been having a drought, so that's a good thing. But the exact amount of rain tomorrow. And let's say I don't know what the actual probability distribution function for this is, but I'll draw one and then we'll interpret it. Just so you can kind of think about how you can think about continuous random variables. So let me draw a probability distribution, or they call it its probability density function. And we draw like this. And let's say that there is-- it looks something like this. Like that. All right, and then I don't know what this height is. So the x-axis here is the amount of rain. Where this is 0 inches, this is 1 inch, this is 2 inches, this is 3 inches, 4 inches. And then this is some height. Let's say it peaks out here at, I don't know, let's say this 0.5. So the way to think about it, if you were to look at this and I were to ask you, what is the probability that Y-- because that's our random variable-- that Y is exactly equal to 2 inches? That Y is exactly equal to two inches. What's the probability of that happening? Well, based on how we thought about the probability distribution functions for the discrete random variable, you'd say OK, let's see. 2 inches, that's the case we care about right now. Let me go up here. You'd say it looks like it's about 0.5. And you'd say, I don't know, is it a 0.5 chance? And I would say no, it is not a 0.5 chance. And before we even think about how we would interpret it visually, let's just think about it logically. What is the probability that tomorrow we have exactly 2 inches of rain? Not 2.01 inches of rain, not 1.99 inches of rain. Not 1.99999 inches of rain, not 2.000001 inches of rain. Exactly 2 inches of rain. I mean, there's not a single extra atom, water molecule above the 2 inch mark. And not as single water molecule below the 2 inch mark. It's essentially 0, right? It might not be obvious to you, because you've probably heard, oh, we had 2 inches of rain last night. But think about it, exactly 2 inches, right? Normally if it's 2.01 people will say that's 2. But we're saying no, this does not count. It can't be 2 inches. We want exactly 2. 1.99 does not count. Normally our measurements, we don't even have tools that can tell us whether it is exactly 2 inches. No ruler you can even say is exactly 2 inches long. At some point, just the way we manufacture things, there's going to be an extra atom on it here or there. So the odds of actually anything being exactly a certain measurement to the exact infinite decimal point is actually 0. The way you would think about a continuous random variable, you could say what is the probability that Y is almost 2? So if we said that the absolute value of Y minus is 2 is less than some tolerance? Is less than 0.1. And if that doesn't make sense to you, this is essentially just saying what is the probability that Y is greater than 1.9 and less than 2.1? These two statements are equivalent. I'll let you think about it a little bit. But now this starts to make a little bit of sense. Now we have an interval here. So we want all Y's between 1.9 and 2.1. So we are now talking about this whole area. And area is key. So if you want to know the probability of this occurring, you actually want the area under this curve from this point to this point. And for those of you who have studied your calculus, that would essentially be the definite integral of this probability density function from this point to this point. So from-- let me see, I've run out of space down here. So let's say if this graph-- let me draw it in a different color. If this line was defined by, I'll call it f of x. I could call it p of x or something. The probability of this happening would be equal to the integral, for those of you who've studied calculus, from 1.9 to 2.1 of f of x dx. Assuming this is the x-axis. So it's a very important thing to realize. Because when a random variable can take on an infinite number of values, or it can take on any value between an interval, to get an exact value, to get exactly 1.999, the probability is actually 0. It's like asking you what is the area under a curve on just this line. Or even more specifically, it's like asking you what's the area of a line? An area of a line, if you were to just draw a line, you'd say well, area is height times base. Well the height has some dimension, but the base, what's the width the a line? As far as the way we've defined a line, a line has no with, and therefore no area. And it should make intuitive sense. That the probability of a very super-exact thing happening is pretty much 0. That you really have to say, OK what's the probably that we'll get close to 2? And then you can define an area. And if you said oh, what's the probability that we get someplace between 1 and 3 inches of rain, then of course the probability is much higher. The probability is much higher. It would be all of this kind of stuff. You could also say what's the probability we have less than 0.1 of rain? Then you would go here and if this was 0.1, you would calculate this area. And you could say what's the probability that we have more than 4 inches of rain tomorrow? Then you would start here and you'd calculate the area in the curve all the way to infinity, if the curve has area all the way to infinity. And hopefully that's not an infinite number, right? Then your probability won't make any sense. But hopefully if you take this sum it comes to some number. And we'll say there's only a 10% chance that you have more than 4 inches tomorrow. And all of this should immediately lead to one light bulb in your head, is that the probability of all of the events that might occur can't be more than 100%. Right? All the events combined-- there's a probability of 1 that one of these events will occur. So essentially, the whole area under this curve has to be equal to 1. So if we took the integral of f of x from 0 to infinity, this thing, at least as I've drawn it, dx should be equal to 1. For those of you who've studied calculus. For those of you who haven't, an integral is just the area under a curve. And you can watch the calculus videos if you want to learn a little bit more about how to do them. And this also applies to the discrete probability distributions. Let me draw one. The sum of all of the probabilities have to be equal to 1. And that example with the dice-- or let's say, since it's faster to draw, the coin-- the two probabilities have to be equal to 1. So this is 1, 0, where x is equal to 1 if we're heads or 0 if we're tails. Each of these have to be 0.5. Or they don't have to be 0.5, but if one was 0.6, the other would have to be 0.4. They have to add to 1. If one of these was-- you can't have a 60% probability of getting a heads and then a 60% probability of getting a tails as well. Because then you would have essentially 120% probability of either of the outcomes happening, which makes no sense at all. So it's important to realize that a probability distribution function, in this case for a discrete random variable, they all have to add up to 1. So 0.5 plus 0.5. And in this case the area under the probability density function also has to be equal to 1. Anyway, I'm all the time for now. In the next video I'll introduce you to the idea of an expected value. See you soon.








Mean (Expected Value) of a Discrete Random Variable | AP Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 4:31)Links to an external site. 

- [Instructor] So, I'm defining the random variable x as the number of workouts that I will do in a given week. Now right over here, this table describes the probability distribution for x. And as you can see, x can take on only a finite number of values, zero, one, two, three, or four. And so, because there's a finite number of values here, we would call this a discrete random variable. And you can see that this is a valid probability distribution because the combined probability is one. .1 plus 0.15, plus 0.4, plus 0.25, plus 0.1 is one. And none of these are negative probabilities, which wouldn't have made sense. But what we care about in this video is the notion of an expected value of a discrete random variable, which we would just note this way. And one way to think about it is, once we calculate the expected value of this variable, of this random variable, that in a given week, that would give you a sense of the expected number of workouts. This is also sometimes referred to as the mean of a random variable. This, right over here, is the Greek letter mu, which is often used to denote the mean. So, this is the mean of the random variable x. But how do we actually compute it? To compute this, we essentially just take the weighted sum of the various outcomes, and we weight them by the probabilities. So, for example, this is going to be, the first outcome here is zero, and we'll weight it by its probability of 0.1. So, it's zero times 0.1. Plus, the next outcome is one, and it'd be weighted by its probability of 0.15. So, plus one times 0.15. Plus, the next outcome is two and has a probability of 0.4, plus two times 0.4. Plus, the outcome three has a probability of 0.25, plus three times 0.25. And then last but not least, we have the outcome four workouts in a week, that has a probability of 0.1, plus four times 0.1. Well, we can simplify this a little bit. Zero times anything is just zero. So, one times 0.15 is 0.15. Two times 0.4 is 0.8. Three times 0.25 is 0.75. And then four times .1 is 0.4. And so, we just have to add up these numbers. So, we get 0.15, plus .8, plus .75, plus .4, and let's say 0.4, 0.75, 0.8. Let's add 'em all together. And so, let's see, five plus five is 10. And then this is two plus eight is 10, plus seven is 17, plus four is 21. So, we get all of this is going to be equal to 2.1. So, one way to think about it is the expected value of x, the expected number of workouts for me in a week, given this probability distribution, is 2.1. Now you might be saying, wait, hold on a second. All of the outcomes here are whole numbers. How can you have 2.1 workouts in a week? What is .1 of a workout? Well, this isn't saying that in a given week, you would expect me to work out exactly 2.1 times. But this is valuable because you could say, well, in 10 weeks, you would expect me to do roughly 21 workouts. Sometimes I might do zero workouts, sometimes one, sometimes two, sometimes three, sometimes four. But in 100 weeks, you might expect me to do 210 workouts. So, even for a random variable that can only take on integer values, you can still have a non-integer expected value, and it is still useful.







Variance and Standard Deviation of a Discrete Random Variable | AP Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 6:25)Links to an external site. 

- [Instructor] In a previous video, we defined this random variable x. It's a discrete random variable. It can only take on a finite number of values, and I defined it as the number of workouts I might do in a week. And we calculated the expected value of our random variable x, which we could also denote as the mean of x, and we use the Greek letter mu, which we use for population mean. And all we did is, it's the probability-weighted sum of the various outcomes. And we got for this random variable with this probability distribution, we got an expected value or a mean of 2.1. What we're gonna do now is extend this idea to measuring spread. And so we're going to think about what is the variance of this random variable, and then we could take the square root of that to find what is the standard deviation. The way we are going to do this has parallels with the way that we've calculated variance in the past. So the variance of our random variable x, what we're going to do is take the difference between each outcome and the mean, square that difference, and then we're gonna multiply it by the probability of that outcome. So for example for this first data point, you're going to have zero minus 2.1 squared times the probability of getting zero, times 0.1. Then you're going to get plus one minus 2.1 squared times the probability that you get one, times 0.15. Then you're going to get plus two minus 2.1 squared times the probability that you get a two, times 0.4. Then you have plus three minus 2.1 squared times 0.25. And then last but not least you have plus four minus 2.1 squared times 0.1. So once again, the difference between each outcome and the mean, we square it and we multiply times the probability of that outcome. So this is going to be negative 2.1 squared, which is just 2.1 squared, so I'll just write this as 2.1 squared, times .1. That's the first term. And then we're going to have plus one minus 2.1 is negative 1.1, and then we're going to square that, so that's just going to be the same thing as 1.1 squared, which is 1.21 but I'll just write it out, 1.1 squared times .15. And then this is going to be two minus 2.1 is negative .1. When you square it is going to be equal to. So plus .01. If you have negative .1 times negative .1, it's .01 times 0.4, times .4. And then plus we this is going to be 0.9 squared, so that is .81 times .25. And then we're almost there. This is going to be plus 1.9 squared, 1.9 squared times .1. And we get 1.19. So this is all going to be equal to 1.19. And if we wanna get the standard deviation for this random variable, we would denote that with the Greek letter sigma. The standard deviation for the random variable x is going to be equal to the square root of the variance. Square root of 1.19, which is equal to, just get the calculator back here, so we are just going to take the square root of what we just, let's type it again, 1.19. And that gives us, so it's approximately 1.09. Approximately 1.09. So let's see if this makes sense. Let me put this all on a number line right over here. So you have the outcome zero, one, two, three, and four. So you have a 10% chance of getting a zero. So I will draw that like this, let's just say this is a height of 10%. You have a 15% chance of getting one, so that would be 1 1/2 times higher. So it would look something like this. You have a 40% chance of getting a two. That's going to be like this. You have a 40% chance of getting a two. You have a 25% chance of getting a three. Like this. And then you have a 10% chance of getting a four. So like that. So this is a visualization of this discrete probability distribution where I didn't draw the vertical axis here, but this would be .1, this would be .15, this would be .25, and that is .4. And then we see that the mean is at 2.1. The mean is, the mean is at 2.1, which makes sense. Even though this random variable only takes on integer values, you can have a mean that takes on a non-integer value. And then the standard deviation is 1.09. So 1.09 above the mean is going to get us close to 3.2, and 1.09 below the mean is gonna get us close to one. And so this all at least intuitively feels reasonable. This mean does seem to be indicative of the central tendency of this distribution. And the standard deviation does seem to be a decent measure of the spread.









Binomial Distribution | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 11:51)Links to an external site. 


- [Voiceover] Let's define a random variable x as being equal to the number of heads, I'll just write capital H for short, the number of heads from flipping coin, from flipping a fair coin, we're gonna assume it's a fair coin, from flipping coin five times. Five times. Like all random variables this is taking particular outcomes and converting them into numbers. And this random variable, it could take on the value x equals zero, one, two, three, four or five. And I what want to do is figure out what's the probability that this random variable takes on zero, can be one, can be two, can be three, can be four, can be five. To do that, first let's think about how many possible outcomes are there from flipping a fair coin five times. Let's think about this. Let's write possible outcomes. Possible outcomes from five flips. From five flips. These aren't the possible outcomes for the random variable, this is literally the number of possible outcomes from flipping a coin five times. For example, one possible outcome could be tails, heads, tails, heads, tails. Another possible outcome could be heads, heads, heads, tails, tails. That is one of the equally likely outcomes, that's another one of the equally likely outcomes. How many of these are there? For each flip you have two possibilities. Let's write this down. Let me... The first flip, the first flip there's two possibilities, times two for the second flip, times two for the third flip. Actually maybe we'll not use the time notation, you might get confused with the random variable. Two possibilities for the first flip, two possibilities for the second flip, two possibilities for the third flip, two possibilities for the fourth flip, and then two possibilities for the fifth flip, or two to the fifth equally likely possibilities from flipping a coin five times, which is, of course, equal to 32. This is going to be helpful because for each of the values that the random variable can take on, we just have to think about how many of these equally likely possibilities would result in the random variable taking on that value. Let's just delve into it to see what we're actually talking about. I'll do it in this light, let me do it in... I'll start in blue. Let's think about the probability that our random variable x is equal to one. Well actually, let me start with zero. The probability that our random variable x is equal to zero. That would mean that you got no heads out of the five flips. Well there's only one way, one out of the 32 equally likely possibilities, that you get no heads. That's the one where you just get five tails. So this is just going to be, this is going to be equal to one out of the 32 equally likely possibilities. Now, for this case, to think in terms of binomial coefficients, and combinatorics, and all of that, it's much easier to just reason through it, but just so we can think in terms it'll be more useful as we go into higher values for our random variable. This is all buildup for the binomial distribution, so you get a sense of where the name comes from. So let's write it in those terms. This one, this one, this one right over here, one way to think about that in combinatorics is that you had five flips and you're choosing zero of them to be heads. Five flips and you're choosing zero of them to be heads. Let's verify that five choose zero is indeed one. So five choose zero. Write it over here. Five choose zero is equal to five factorial over, over five minus zero factorial. Well actually over zero factorial times five minus zero factorial. Well zero factorial is one, by definition, so this is going to be five factorial, over five factorial, which is going to be equal to one. Once again I like reasoning through it instead of blindly applying a formula, but I just wanted to show you that these two ideas are consistent. Let's keep going. I'm going to do x equals one all the way up to x equals five. If you are inspired, and I encourage you to be inspired, try to fill out the whole thing, what's the probability that x equals one, two, three, four or five. So let's go to the probability that x equals two. Or sorry, that x equals one. The probability that x equals one is going to be equal to... Well how do you get one head? It could be, the first one could be head and then the rest of them are gonna be tails. The second one could be head and then the rest of them are gonna be tails. I could write them all out but you can see that there's five different places to have that one head. So five out of the 32 equally likely outcomes involve one head. Let me write that down. This is going to be equal to five out of 32 equally likely outcomes. Which of course is the same thing, this is going to be the same thing as saying I got five flips, and I'm choosing one of them to be heads. So that over 32. You could verify that five factorial over one factorial times five minus-- Actually let me just do it just so that you don't have to take my word for it. So five choose one is equal to five factorial over one factorial, which is just one, times five minus four-- Sorry, five minus one factorial. Which is equal to five factorial over four factorial, which is just going to be equal to five. All right, we're making good progress. Now in purple let's think about the probability that our random variable x is equal to two. Well this is going to be equal to, and now I'll actually resort to the combinatorics. You have five flips and you're choosing two of them to be heads. Over 32 equally likely possibilities. This is the number of possibilities that result in two heads. Two of the five flips have chosen to be heads, I guess you can think of it that way, by the random gods, or whatever you want to say. This is the fraction of the 32 equally likely possibilities, so this is the probability that x equals two. What's this going to be? I'll do it right over here. And actually no reason for me to have to keep switching colors. So five choose two is going to be equal to five factorial over two factorial times five minus two factorial. Five minus two factorial. So this is five factorial over two factorial times three factorial. And this is going to be equal to five times four times three times two, I could write times one but that doesn't really do anything for us. Then two factorial's just going to be two. Then the three factorial is three times two. I could write times one, but once again doesn't do anything for us. That cancels with that. Four divided by two is two. Five times two is 10. So this is equal to 10. This right over here is equal to 10/32. 10/32. And obviously we could simplify this fraction, but I like to leave it this way because we're now thinking everything is in terms of 32nds. There's a 1/32 chance x equals zero, 5/32 chance that x equals one and a 10/32 chance that x equals two. Let's keep on going. I'll go in orange. What is the probability that our random variable x is equal to three? Well this is going to be five, out of the five flips we're going to need to choose three of them to be heads to figure out which of the possibilities involve exactly three heads. And this is over 32 equally likely possibilities. And this is going to be equal to, five choose three is equal to five factorial over three factorial times five minus three factorial. Let me just write it down. Five minus three factorial, which is equal to five factorial over three factorial times two factorial. That's exactly what we had up here and we just swapped three and the two, so this also is going to be equal to 10. So this is also going to be equal to 10/32. All right, two more to go. And I think you're going to start seeing a little bit of a symmetry here. One, five, 10, 10, let's keep going. Let's keep going, and I haven't used white yet. Maybe I'll use white. The probability that our random variable x is equal to four. Well, out of our five flips we want to select four of them to be heads, or out of the five-- We're obviously not actively selecting. One way to think of it, we want to figure out the possibilities that involve out of the five flips, four of them are chosen to be heads, or four of them are heads. And this is over 32 equally likely possibilities. So five choose four is equal to five factorial over four factorial times five minus four factorial which is equal to, well that's just going to be five factorial, this is going to be one factorial right over here. That doesn't change the value, you just multiply one factorial times four factorial, so it's five factorial over four factorial, which is equal to five. So once again this is 5/32. And you could have reasoned through this because if you're saying you want five heads, that means you have one tail. There's five different places you could put that one tail. There are five possibilities with one tail. Five of the 32 equally likely. And then, and you could probably guess what we're gonna get for x equals five because having five heads means you have zero tails, and there's only gonna be one possibility out of the 32 with zero tails, where you have all heads. Let's write that down. The probability, the probability that our random variable x is equal to five. So we have all five heads. You could say this is five and we're choosing five of them to be heads. Out of the 32 equally likely possibilities. Well five choose five, that's going to be... Let me just write it here since I've done it for all of the other ones. Five choose five is five factorial over five factorial times five minus five factorial. Well this right over here is zero factorial, which is equal to one, so this whole thing simplifies to one. This is going to be one out of-- 1/32. So you see the symmetry. 1/32, 1/32. 5/32, 5/32; 10/32, 10/32. And that makes sense because the probability of getting five heads is the same as the probability of getting zero tails, and the probability of getting zero tails should be the same as the probability of getting zero heads. I'll leave you there for this video. In the next video we'll graphically represent this and we'll see the probability distribution for this random variable.








Poisson Process 1 | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 11:00)Links to an external site. 

Let's say you're some type of traffic engineer and what you're trying to figure out is, how many cars pass by a certain point on the street at any given point in time? And you want to figure out the probabilities that a hundred cars pass or 5 cars pass in a given hour. So a good place to start is just to define a random variable that essentially represents what you care about. So let's say the number of cars that pass in some amount of time, let's say, in an hour. And your goal is to figure out the probability distribution of this random variable and then once you know the probability distribution then you can figure out what's the probability that 100 cars pass in an hour or the probability that no cars pass in an hour and you'd be unstoppable. And just a little aside, just to move forward with this video, there's two assumptions we need to make because we're going to study the Poisson distribution. And in order to study it's there's two assumptions we have to make. That Poisson hour at this point on the street is no different than any other hour. And we know that that's probably false. During rush hour in a real situation you probably would have more cars than at another rush hour. And you know, if you wanted to be more realistic maybe we do it in the day because in a day any period of time-- actually, no. I shouldn't do a day. We have to assume that every hour is completely just like any other hour and actually, even within the hour there's really no differentiation from one second to the other in terms of the probabilities that a car arrives. That's a little bit of a simplifying assumption that might not truly apply to traffic, but I think we can make that assumption. And then the other assumption we need to make is that if a bunch of cars pass in one hour that doesn't mean that fewer cars will pass in the next. That in no way does the number of cars that pass in one period affect or correlate or somehow influence the number of cars that pass in the next. That they're really independent. Given that, we can then at least try using the skills we have to model out some type of a distribution. The first thing you do and I'd recommend doing this for any distribution is maybe we can estimate the mean. Let's sit out on that curb and measure what this variable is over a bunch of hours and then average it up, and that's going to be a pretty good estimator for the actual mean of our population. Or, since it's a random variable, the expected value of this random variable. Let's say you do that and you get your best estimate of the expected value of this random variable is-- I'll use the letter lambda. You know, this could be 9 cars per hour. You sat out there-- it could be 9.3 cars per hour. You sat out there over hundreds of hours and you just counted the number of cars each hour and you averaged them all up. You said, on average, there are 9.3 cars per hour and you feel that's a pretty good estimate. So that's what you have there. And let's see what we could do. We know the binomial distribution. The binomial distribution tells us that the expected value of a random variable is equal to the number of trials that that random variable's kind of composed of, right? Before, in the previous videos we were counting the number of heads in a coin toss. So this would be the number of coin tosses, times the probability of success over each toss. This is what we did with the binomial distribution. So maybe we can model our traffic situation something similar. This is the number of cars that pass in an hour. So maybe we could say lambda cars per hour is equal to-- I don't know. Let's make each experiment or each toss of the coin equal to whether a car passes in a given minute. So there are 60 minutes per hour, so there would be 60 trials. And then, the probability that we have success in each of those trials, if we modeled this as a binomial distribution would be lambda over 60 cars per minute. And this would be a probability. This would be n, and this would be the probability, if we said that this is a binomial distribution. And this probably wouldn't be that bad of an approximation. If you actually then said, oh, this is a binomial distribution, so the probability that our random variable equals some given value, k. You know, the probability that 3 cars, exactly 3 cars pass in an given hour, we would then be equal to n. So n would be 60. Choose k, and you know, I have 3 cars times the probability of success. So the probability that a car passes in any minute. So it'd be lambda over 60 to the number of successes we need. So to the kth power, times the probability of no success or that no cars pass, to the n minus k. If we have k successes we have to have 60 minus k failures. There are 60 minus k minutes where no car passed. This actually wouldn't be that bad of an approximation where you have 60 intervals and you say this is a binomial distribution. And you'd probably get reasonable results. But there's a core issue here. In this model where we model it as a binomial distribution, what happens if more than one car passes in an hour? Or more than one car passes in a minute? The way we have it right now we call it a success if one car passes in a minute. And if you're kind of counting it counts as one success, even if 5 cars pass in that minute. So you say, oh, OK Sal, I know the solution there. I just have to get more granular. Instead of dividing it into minutes why don't I divide it into seconds? So the probability that I have k successes-- instead of 60 intervals I'll do 3,600 intervals. So the probability of k successful seconds, so a second where a car is passing at that moment out of 3,600 seconds. So that's 3,600 choose k, times the probability that a car passes in any given second. That's the expected number of cars in an hour divided by number seconds in an hour. We're going to have k successes. And these are the failures, the probability of a failure and you're going to have 3,600 minus k failures. And this would be even a better approximation. This actually would not be so bad, but still, you have this situation where 2 cars can come within a half a second of each other. And you say, oh, OK Sal, I see the pattern here. We just have to get more and more granular. We have to just make this number larger and larger and larger. And your intuition is correct. And if you do that you'll end up getting the Poisson distribution. And this is really interesting because a lot of times people give you the formula for the Poisson distribution and you can kind of just plug in the numbers and use it. But it's neat to know that it really is just the binomial distribution and the binomial distribution really did come from kind of the common sense of flipping coins. That's where everything is coming from. But before we kind of prove that if we take the limit as-- let me change colors. Before we proved that as we take the limit as this number right here, the number of intervals approaches infinity that this becomes the Poisson distribution. I'm going to make sure we have a couple of mathematical tools in our belt. So the first is something that you're probably reasonably familiar with by now, but I just want to make sure that the limit as x approaches infinity of 1 plus a/x to the x power is equal to e to the ax-- no sorry. Is equal to e to the a and now just to prove this to you, let's make a little substitution here. Let's say that n is equal to-- let me say 1 over n is equal to a over x. And then what would be x would equal to na. x times 1 is equal to n times a. And so the limit as x approaches infinity, what does a approach? a is-- sorry. As x approaches infinity what does n approach? Well n is x divided by a. So n would also approach infinity. So this thing would be the same thing as just making our substitution the limit as n approaches infinity of 1 plus-- a/x, I made the substitution as 1/n. And x is, by this substitution, n times a. And this is going to be the same thing as the limit as n approaches infinity of 1 plus 1/n to the n, all of that to the a. And since there's no n out here we could just take the limit of this and then take that to the a power. So that's going to be equal to the limit as n approaches infinity of 1 plus 1/n to the nth power, all of that to the a. And this is our definition, or one of the ways to get to e if you'd watch the videos on compound interest and all that. This is how we got to e. And if you tried it out on your calculator, just try larger and larger n's here and you'll get e. This inner part is equal to e, and we raised it to the a power, so it's equal to e to the a. So hopefully you pretty satisfied that this limit is equal to e to the a. And then one other tool kit I want in our belt, and I'll probably actually do the proof in the next video. The other tool kit is to recognize that x factorial over x minus k factorial is equal to x times x minus 1 times x minus 2, all the way down to times x minus k plus 1. And we've done this a lot of times, but this is the most abstract we've ever written it. I can give you a couple of-- and just so you know, they'll be exactly k terms here. 1, 2, 3-- So first term, second term, third term, all the way, and this the kth term. And this is important to our derivation of the Poisson distribution. But just to make this in real numbers, if I had 7 factorial over 7 minus 2 factorial, that's equal to 7 times 6 times 5 times 4 times 3 times 3 times 1. Over 2 times-- no sorry. 7 minus 2, this is 5. So it's over 5 times 4 times 3 times 2 times 1. These cancel out and you just have 7 times 6. And so it's 7 and then the last term is 7 minus 2 plus 1, which is 6. In this example, k was 2 and you had exactly 2 terms. So once we know those two things we're now ready to derive the Poisson distribution and I'll do that in the next video. See you soon.








Poisson Process 2 | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 12:41)Links to an external site. 

I think we now have all the tools we need to move forward, so just to review a little bit of the last video we said we are trying to model out the probability distribution of how many cars might pass in an hour. And the first thing we did is we sat at that intersection and we found a pretty good expected value of our random variable. And this random variable, just to go back to the top, we defined the random variable as the number of cars that pass in an hour at a certain point on a certain road. We measure a bunch, we sat out there a bunch of hours, and we got a pretty good estimate of this and we say it's lambda. And we said, OK, we wanted to model it as a binomial distribution. So if this is a binomial distribution then this lambda would be equal to the number of trials times the probability of success per trial. And so, if we could view a trial as an interval of time. This is the total number of successes in an hour. And so this would be success in a smaller interval. And this would be the probability of success in that smaller interval. And in the last video we tried it out. We said, oh, well, what if we make this interval a minute and this is the probability of success per minute? We'd have maybe a reasonable description of what we're describing. But what if more than one car passes in a minute? And they said, oh, let's make this per second and this is the probability of success per second. But then we still have the problem, more than one car could pass in a second, very easily. So what we wanted to do is we want to take the limit as this approaches infinity and then see what kind of formula we get from the math gods. If we describes this as a binomial distribution with the limit as it approaches infinity, we could say that the probability that x is equal to some number-- so the probability that our random variable is equal to 3 cars in a particular hour, exactly 3 cars in an hour-- is equal to-- oh, we want to take the limit as it approaches infinity, right? The limit as n approaches infinity of n choose k. We're going to have k moments in time because n approaches infinity, these intervals become super super duper small. So these become moments in time. We're going to have close to an infinite number moments and this is the number of successful moments where cars pass. We have 3 moments where there was a success, where a car passed, and we had a total of 3 cars pass. Or 7 cars, 7 moments where it was true that a car passed, and we would have total 7 cars pass in the hour. So just finishing up with our binomial distribution, n moments, choose k successes times the probability of success. What's the probability of success? So this would be n. What's p equal to? p is equal to lambda divided by n, right? n times p is lambda, so let me just write that down. p is equal to lambda divided by n. I just rearranged this up here. So our probability of success is lambda times n. And we're saying what's the probability that we have k successes? And then, what's the probability that we have a failure? Well, it's 1 minus the probability of success. And how many failures are we going to have? How many moments will not have a car pass? Well, we have total event moments and k of them were successes, so we'll have n minus k failures. Let's see what we can do with this. So this is equal to-- let me rewrite it all. And I'll change colors. The limit as n approaches infinity-- let me write out this binomial coefficient. That's n factorial over n minus k factorial times k factorial. Normally I write these the other way around, but it's the same thing. Times lambda to the k. Using my exponent properties-- over n to the k. And then this expression right here, I can actually separate out the exponents. This is the same thing as 1 minus lambda over n to the n times 1 minus lambda over n to the minus k. You have the same base, you could add the exponents and you would get this up here. Let me simplify a little bit more. Let me swap spots with these two. You can kind of view them both as being in the denominator. So you can change the order of division or multiplication depending how you view it. So this is equal to the limit-- let me switch colors. The limit as n approaches infinity-- I don't like that color. Actually, let me just rewrite what we did in the last video. What is this thing right here? And we showed at the end of the last video. n factorial divided by n minus k factorial. It was n times n minus 1 times n minus 2, all the way to n minus k plus 1. If this was 7 over 7 minus 2 factorial we would have 7 times 6. And 6 is one more than 7 minus 2. So that's where we got that. We did that in the last video if you're getting confused. And we also said that there's going to be exactly k terms here. So if you counted these as 1, 2, 3-- all the way, there's going to be k terms here. We took care of that. We just rewrote that. And I said I would switch these two things around, so that's divided by n to the k times-- I'm just switching these-- lambda to the k over k factorial. And then, what do we have here? We'll I can just rewrite that. This is continuing the same line. 1 minus lambda over n to the n times 1 minus lambda over n to the minus k. Now we can take the limit. So what happens when we take the limit? If you take the limit, this is another property so you don't get too overwhelmed-- another property of limits. If I take the limit as x approaches anything, a of f of x times g of x. That's equal to the limit as x approaches a of f of x, times the limit as x approaches a of g of x. So we could take each of these limits in the product and then multiply them and then we'll be all set. So let's do that. And I want to leave this stuff up here. So first of all, what's this limit? Let me write this out. And let me pick a good color-- yellow. So we have the limit as n approaches infinity. So this thing up here, this n times n minus 1 times n minus 2-- all the way down to n minus k plus 1, what's it going to look like? It's going to be a polynomial right? We're multiplying a bunch of-- well really, we're multiplying a bunch of binomials and we're doing it k times. So the largest degree term is going to be n to the k. It's going to be n to the k plus something times n to the k minus 1. It's going to be this big polynomial-- kth degree polynomial. And that's really all we need to know for this derivation. So it's going to be n to the k plus blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah-- a bunch of other stuff. This thing when you multiply it out, over-- we have this n to the k, that's this part of it. Times the limit as-- well actually, we don't have to worry. This is a constant. So we could actually bring this out front. So we don't even have to write a limit. So times lambda to the k k over k factorial. There's no n here, so this is a constant with respect to n. Times the limit as n approaches infinity of 1 minus lambda over n to the n times 1 minus lambda over n to the minus k. All right, I know you can barely read this. So first of all, what's this limit? The limit as n approaches infinity of some polynomial where it's n to the kth power plus blah, blah, blah, blah. Where all of these other terms have a lower degree. This is the highest degree term. So you have n to the k in the numerator and you have n to the k in the denominator. So the highest degrees are the same. The coefficients are 1, so this limit is 1. Another way you could do it, you could divide the numerator and the denominator by n to the k and you would get-- this would just be 1 plus 1 over n plus 1 over-- everything else would have a 1 over n in it, and this would just be a 1. And if you took the limit as you approach infinity, then all of these other terms would be zero and you'd be left with 1/1. But either way, you have the same degree in the top and the bottom, and their coefficients are the same, so the limit as n approaches infinity of this is 1, which is a nice simplification. So you end up with 1 times lambda k over k factorial. Now what's the limit as n approaches infinity of this thing right here? 1 minus lambda over n to the n. Well, in the last video we showed that it would be-- I'll write it right here. That the limit as n approaches infinity of 1 plus a over n to the n is equal to e to the a. That's exactly what we have you here, but instead of an a we have a minus lambda. So this is going to be equal to e to the minus lambda. We have a minus lambda instead of an a. And then finally, what's the limit as n approaches infinity? Let me write it a little bit neater. I'm just rewriting this term. 1 minus lambda over n to the minus k power. What happens as n approaches infinity? Well, this term, lambda's a constant. As this approaches infinity, this term's going to approach 0. So you have 1 to the minus k. 1 to any power is 1, so that term becomes 1. So we have another 1 there. So there you have it. We're done. The probability that our random variable, the number of cars that passes in an hour, is equal to a particular number. You know, it's equal to 7 cars pass in an hour. Is equal to the limit as n approaches infinity of n choose k times-- well, we said it was lambda over n to the k successes times 1 minus lambda over n to the n minus k failures. And we just showed that this is equal to lambda to the kth power over k factorial times e to the minus lambda. And that's pretty neat because when you just see it in kind of a vacuum-- if you have no context for it, you wouldn't guess that this is in any way related to the binomial theorem. I mean, it's got an e in there. It's got a factorial, but a lot of things have factorials in life, so not clear that that would make it a binomial theorem. But this is just the limit as you take smaller and smaller and smaller intervals, and the probability of success in each interval becomes smaller. But as you take the limit you end up with e. And if you think about it it makes sense because one of our derivations of e actually came out of compound interest and we kind of did something similar there. We took smaller and smaller intervals of compounding and over each interval we compounded by a much smaller number. And when you took the limit you got e again. And that's actually where that whole formula up here came from to begin with. But anyway, just so that you know how to use this thing. So let's say that I were to go out, I'm the traffic engineer, and I figure out that on average, 9 cars passed per hour. And I want to know the probability that-- so this is my expected value. In a given hour, on average, 9 cars are passing. So I want to know the probability that 2 cars pass in a given hour, exactly 2 cars pass. That's going to be equal to 9 cars per hour to the 2'th power or squared, to the 2'th power. Divided by 2 factorial times e to the minus 9 power. So it's equal to 81 over 2 times e to the minus 9 power. And let's see, maybe I should just get the graphing calculator out. Well, I'll let you do that exercise to figure out what that is, but I'll see you in the next video.







Geometric Distribution Mean and Standard Deviation | AP Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 6:25)Links to an external site. 


- [Instructor] So let's say we're going to play a game where on each person's turn, they're going to keep rolling this fair six sided die, until we get a one. And we just want to see how many rolls does it take. So let's say we define some random variable, let's call it X, and let's call it the number of rolls until we get a one. So what's the probability that X is equal to one. Pause this video and think about it. All right, the probability that X is equal to one means that it only takes us one roll to get a one. Well, that's going to be a one sixth probability. Well, what's the probability that X is equal to two? Well, that means that we on the first roll, we get something other than a one. So that is going to be five sixths, and then on the second roll, we get a one. So that has a one sixth probability. And we could keep going. What's the probability that X is equal to three? Pause the video and think about that. Well, that means we miss on the first two. So we have a five sixth chance of getting something other than a one on the first two rolls. So we could say that's five sixth times five six, so we could write five sixth squared. And then on the third roll we have the one in six chance of getting the one. So times one sixth. And I think you see a pattern here, and you might recognize what type of random variable this is. This is a geometric variable. Now how do we know that? Well each trial or each roll is either a success or a failure. Every time we roll, we either get a one or we don't. We have the same probability of success of rolling a one each trial. These are independent trials. And that there's no set number of trials. It could take us an arbitrary number of trials to get the first success. So that's what tells us that we're dealing with the geometric random variable. Now one question is, is what is going to be the mean of this geometric random variable? Well, we prove it in another video where we talk about the expected value of a geometric random variable. We're really talking about the mean of a geometric random variable. And it is a little bit intuitive. If you were to just guess, what is the mean of a geometric random variable where the chance of success on each roll is one sixth. You might say, well, maybe on average it takes you about six tries, and you would be correct. The mean of a geometric random variable is one over the probability of success on each trial. So in this situation the mean is going to be one over this probability of success in each trial is one over six. So it's equal to six. So one way to think about it is on average, you would have six trials until you get a one. Now another question is what's a measure of the spread of a geometric random variable? And we don't prove this in another video, maybe I'll do it eventually. That the standard deviation of a geometric random variable is the mean times the square root of one minus P, or you could just write this as a square root of one minus P over P. Now in this situation, what would this be? Well, the standard deviation of this random variable, it's a geometric random variable. It's going to be the square root of one minus one sixth, all of that over one sixth. So this is going to be equal to the square root of five sixth over one sixth, which is equal to six times the square root of five sixth. And this is going to be approximately equal to five divided by six is equal to that. We'll take the square root of that. And then multiply that times six, gets us to about 5.5. So approximately equal to 5.5. And what's interesting about a geometric random variable, obviously the lowest value here in this case is one, two, three, can go higher, higher, but you can go arbitrary. You could get really unlucky and it might take you a thousand rolls in order to get that one. It could take you a million rolls, very low probability, but it could take you a million rolls in order to get that one. And so another thing to realize about a geometric random variables distribution, it tends to look something like this where the mean might be over here. And so you have a very long tail to the right of your mean, and this is classic right skew. And so all geometric random variables distributions are right skewed. They have a long tail of values, an infinitely long tail of values they can take to the right. Now one last question, instead of dealing with a six sided die, what would be the situation if we were dealing with a 12 sided die? What would then be the mean of our random variable? And what would be the standard deviation of our random variable? Pause this video and think about that. Well, the mean would be one over one 12th, because you have a probability of one 12th every time of getting it one. We're assuming we're playing the same game now with the 12 sided die. So one over one 12th would be 12. So on average it would take 12 rolls to get that first one. And then our standard deviation is going to be essentially this times the square root of one minus one 12th. Or let me write it this way. It's one minus one 12th, over one over 12, which is the same thing as 12 times the square root of 11 12ths. 11 divided by 12 is equal to, take the square root and then multiply that times 12. And you get about 11.5. 11.5. And so you can see with a 12 sided die, it has the same pattern, where you have your mean of your random variable, and then you have a standard deviation that goes a reasonable bit on either side of the mean, it's almost equal to the mean in actually in both situations. It's a little bit lower than the mean. But then there's many, many, many values that go far to the right of your mean. And so you have this classical right skew for a geometric random variable.
