Introduction to Sampling Distributions | Sampling Distributions | AP Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 7:17)Links to an external site. 


- [Instructor] What we're gonna do in this video is talk about the idea of a sampling distribution. Now, just to make things a little bit concrete, let's imagine that we have a population of some kind. Let's say it's a bunch of balls, each of them have a number written on it. For that population, we could calculate parameters. So, a parameter you could view as a truth about that population. We've covered this in other videos. So for example, you could have the population mean, the mean of the numbers written on top of that ball. You could have the population standard deviation. You could have the proportion of balls that are even, whatever, these are all population parameters. Now we know from many other videos that you might not know the population parameter or might not even be easy to find, and so the way that we try to estimate a population parameter is by taking a sample, so this right over here is a sample size of size n. Sample of size n. And then we can calculate a statistic from that sample, based on that sample, maybe we picked n balls from there. And so from that, we can calculate a statistic that is used to estimate this parameter. But we know that this is a random sample right over here, so every time we take a sample, the statistic that we calculate for that sample is not necessarily going to be the same as the population parameter. In fact, if we were to take a random sample of size n again and then we were to calculate the statistic again, we could very well get a different value. So, these are all going to be estimates of this parameter. And so an interesting question is what is the distribution of the values that I could get for the statistics? What is the frequency with which I can get different values for the statistic that is trying to estimate this parameter? And that distribution is what a sampling distribution is. So let's make this even a little bit more concrete. Let's imagine where our population, I'm gonna make this a very simple example. Let's say our population has three balls in it. One, two, three, and they're numbered, one, two, and three. And it's very easy to calculate. Let's say the parameter that we care about right over here is the population mean, and that of course is gonna be one plus two plus three, all of that over three, which is six divided by three which is two. So, that is our population parameter. But let's say that we wanted to take samples, let's say samples of two balls at a time and every time we take a ball, we'll replace it. So each ball we take, it is an independent pick. And we're gonna use those samples of two balls at a time in order to estimate the population mean. So for example, this could be our first sample of size two and let's say in that first sample, I pick a one and let's say I pick a two. Well then I can calculate the sample statistic here. In this case, it would be the sample mean which is used to estimate the population mean. And for this sample of two, it's going to be 1.5. Then I can do it again. And let's say I get a one and I get a three. Well now, when I calculate the sample mean, the average of one and three or the mean of one and three is going to be equal to two. Let's think about all of the different scenarios of samples we can get and what the associated sample means are going to be. And then we can see the frequency of getting those sample means. And so, let me draw a little bit of a table here. So, make a table right over here. And let's see, these are the numbers that we pick and remember, when we pick one ball, we'll record that number, then we'll put it back in, and then we'll pick another ball. So these are going to be independent events and it's gonna be with replacement. And so, let's say we could pick a one and then a one. We could pick a one, then a two, a one and a three. We could pick a two and then a one. We could pick a two and a two, a two and a three. We could pick a three and a one, a three and a two or a three and a three. There's three possible balls for the first pick and three possible balls for the second 'cause we're doing it with replacement. And so, what is the sample mean in each of these for all of these combinations? So for this one, the sample mean is one. Here, it is 1.5. Here, it is two. Here, it is 1.5. Here, it is two. Here, it is 2.5. Here, it is two. Here, it is 2.5. And then here, it is three. And so, we can now plot the frequencies of these possible sample means that we can get and that plot will be a sampling distribution of the sample means. So let's do that. So, we make a little chart right over, a little graph right over here. So these are the possible sample means. We can get a one, we can get a 1.5, we can get a two, we can get a 2.5 or we can get a three. And now let's see the frequency of it. I will put that over here. And so let's see, how many ones out of our nine possibilities we have, how many were one? Well, only one of the sample means was one, and so the relative frequency, if we just set the number, we could make this line go up one or we could just say, "Hey, this is going to be one "out of the nine possibilities." And so let me just make that. I'll call this right over here. This is 1/9. Now, what about 1.5? Let's see, there's one, two of these possibilities out of nine. So, 1.5, it would look like this. This right over here is two over nine. And now, what about two? Well, we can see there's one, two, three. So three out of the nine possibilities, we got a two. So we could say this is two or we could say this is 3/9, which is the same thing of course as 1/3. So this right over here is three over nine. And then what about 2.5? Well, there's two 2.5's, so two out of the nine times. Another way you can interpret this is when you take a random sample with replacement of two balls, you have a 2/9 chance of having a sample mean of 2.5. And then last but not least, right over here, there's one scenario out of the nine where you get two three's or 1/9. And so this right over here, this is the sampling distribution, sampling distribution, for the sample mean for n equals two or for sample size of two.










Central Limit Theorem | Inferential Statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 9:48)Links to an external site. 


In this video, I want to talk about what is easily one of the most fundamental and profound concepts in statistics and maybe in all of mathematics. And that's the central limit theorem. And what it tells us is we can start off with any distribution that has a well-defined mean and variance-- and if it has a well-defined variance, it has a well-defined standard deviation. And it could be a continuous distribution or a discrete one. I'll draw a discrete one, just because it's easier to imagine, at least for the purposes of this video. So let's say I have a discrete probability distribution function. And I want to be very careful not to make it look anything close to a normal distribution. Because I want to show you the power of the central limit theorem. So let's say I have a distribution. Let's say it could take on values 1 through 6. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. It's some kind of crazy dice. It's very likely to get a one. Let's say it's impossible-- well, let me make that a straight line. You have a very high likelihood of getting a 1. Let's say it's impossible to get a 2. Let's say it's an OK likelihood of getting a 3 or a 4. Let's say it's impossible to get a 5. And let's say it's very likely to get a 6 like that. So that's my probability distribution function. If I were to draw a mean-- this the symmetric, so maybe the mean would be something like that. The mean would be halfway. So that would be my mean right there. The standard deviation maybe would look-- it would be that far and that far above and below the mean. But that's my discrete probability distribution function. Now what I'm going to do here, instead of just taking samples of this random variable that's described by this probability distribution function, I'm going to take samples of it. But I'm going to average the samples and then look at those samples and see the frequency of the averages that I get. And when I say average, I mean the mean. Let me define something. Let's say my sample size-- and I could put any number here. But let's say first off we try a sample size of n is equal to 4. And what that means is I'm going to take four samples from this. So let's say the first time I take four samples-- so my sample sizes is four-- let's say I get a 1. Let's say I get another 1. And let's say I get a 3. And I get a 6. So that right there is my first sample of sample size 4. I know the terminology can get confusing. Because this is the sample that's made up of four samples. But then when we talk about the sample mean and the sampling distribution of the sample mean, which we're going to talk more and more about over the next few videos, normally the sample refers to the set of samples from your distribution. And the sample size tells you how many you actually took from your distribution. But the terminology can be very confusing, because you could easily view one of these as a sample. But we're taking four samples from here. We have a sample size of four. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to average them. So let's say the mean-- I want to be very careful when I say average. The mean of this first sample of size 4 is what? 1 plus 1 is 2. 2 plus 3 is 5. 5 plus 6 is 11. 11 divided by 4 is 2.75. That is my first sample mean for my first sample of size 4. Let me do another one. My second sample of size 4, let's say that I get a 3, a 4. Let's say I get another 3. And let's say I get a 1. I just didn't happen to get a 6 that time. And notice I can't get a 2 or a 5. It's impossible for this distribution. The chance of getting a 2 or 5 is 0. So I can't have any 2s or 5s over here. So for the second sample of sample size 4, my second sample mean is going to be 3 plus 4 is 7. 7 plus 3 is 10 plus 1 is 11. 11 divided by 4, once again, is 2.75. Let me do one more, because I really want to make it clear what we're doing here. So I do one more. Actually, we're going to do a gazillion more. But let me just do one more in detail. So let's say my third sample of sample size 4-- so I'm going to literally take 4 samples. So my sample is made up of 4 samples from this original crazy distribution. Let's say I get a 1, a 1, and a 6 and a 6. And so my third sample mean is going to be 1 plus 1 is 2. 2 plus 6 is 8. 8 plus 6 is 14. 14 divided by 4 is 3 and 1/2. And as I find each of these sample means-- so for each of my samples of sample size 4, I figure out a mean. And as I do each of them, I'm going to plot it on a frequency distribution. And this is all going to amaze you in a few seconds. So I plot this all on a frequency distribution. So I say, OK, on my first sample, my first sample mean was 2.75. So I'm plotting the actual frequency of the sample means I get for each sample. So 2.75, I got it one time. So I'll put a little plot there. So that's from that one right there. And the next time, I also got a 2.75. That's a 2.75 there. So I got it twice. So I'll plot the frequency right there. Then I got a 3 and 1/2. So all the possible values, I could have a three, I could have a 3.25, I could have a 3 and 1/2. So then I have the 3 and 1/2, so I'll plot it right there. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to keep taking these samples. Maybe I'll take 10,000 of them. So I'm going to keep taking these samples. So I go all the way to S 10,000. I just do a bunch of these. And what it's going to look like over time is each of these-- I'm going to make it a dot, because I'm going to have to zoom out. So if I look at it like this, over time-- it still has all the values that it might be able to take on, 2.75 might be here. So this first dot is going to be-- this one right here is going to be right there. And that second one is going to be right there. Then that one at 3.5 is going to look right there. But I'm going to do it 10,000 times. Because I'm going to have 10,000 dots. And let's say as I do it, I'm going just keep plotting them. I'm just going to keep plotting the frequencies. I'm just going to keep plotting them over and over and over again. And what you're going to see is, as I take many, many samples of size 4, I'm going to have something that's going to start kind of approximating a normal distribution. So each of these dots represent an incidence of a sample mean. So as I keep adding on this column right here, that means I kept getting the sample mean 2.75. So over time. I'm going to have something that's starting to approximate a normal distribution. And that is a neat thing about the central limit theorem. So an orange, that's the case for n is equal to 4. This was a sample size of 4. Now, if I did the same thing with a sample size of maybe 20-- so in this case, instead of just taking 4 samples from my original crazy distribution, every sample I take 20 instances of my random variable, and I average those 20. And then I plot the sample mean on here. So in that case, I'm going to have a distribution that looks like this. And we'll discuss this in more videos. But it turns out if I were to plot 10,000 of the sample means here, I'm going to have something that, two things-- it's going to even more closely approximate a normal distribution. And we're going to see in future videos, it's actually going to have a smaller-- well, let me be clear. It's going to have the same mean. So that's the mean. This is going to have the same mean. So it's going to have a smaller standard deviation. Well, I should plot these from the bottom because you kind of stack it. One you get one, then another instance and another instance. But this is going to more and more approach a normal distribution. So this is what's super cool about the central limit theorem. As your sample size becomes larger-- or you could even say as it approaches infinity. But you really don't have to get that close to infinity to really get close to a normal distribution. Even if you have a sample size of 10 or 20, you're already getting very close to a normal distribution, in fact about as good an approximation as we see in our everyday life. But what's cool is we can start with some crazy distribution. This has nothing to do with a normal distribution. This was n equals 4, but if we have a sample size of n equals 10 or n equals 100, and we were to take 100 of these, instead of four here, and average them and then plot that average, the frequency of it, then we take 100 again, average them, take the mean, plot that again, and if we do that a bunch of times, in fact, if we were to do that an infinite time, we would find that we, especially if we had an infinite sample size, we would find a perfect normal distribution. That's the crazy thing. And it doesn't apply just to taking the sample mean. Here we took the sample mean every time. But you could have also taken the sample sum. The central limit theorem would have still applied. But that's what's so super useful about it. Because in life, there's all sorts of processes out there, proteins bumping into each other, people doing crazy things, humans interacting in weird ways. And you don't know the probability distribution functions for any of those things. But what the central limit theorem tells us is if we add a bunch of those actions together, assuming that they all have the same distribution, or if we were to take the mean of all of those actions together, and if we were to plot the frequency of those means, we do get a normal distribution. And that's frankly why the normal distribution shows up so much in statistics and why, frankly, it's a very good approximation for the sum or the means of a lot of processes. Normal distribution. What I'm going to show you in the next video is I'm actually going to show you that this is a reality, that as you increase your sample size, as you increase your n, and as you take a lot of sample means, you're going to have a frequency plot that looks very, very close to a normal distribution.








Sampling Distribution of the Sample Mean | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 10:51)Links to an external site. 


In the last video, we learned about what is quite possibly the most profound idea in statistics, and that's the central limit theorem. And the reason why it's so neat is, we could start with any distribution that has a well defined mean and variance-- actually, I wrote the standard deviation here in the last video, that should be the mean, and let's say it has some variance. I could write it like that, or I could write the standard deviation there. But as long as it has a well defined mean and standard deviation, I don't care what the distribution looks like. What I can do is take samples-- in the last video of say, size four-- that means I take literally four instances of this random variable, this is one example. I take their mean, and I consider this the sample mean from my first trial, or you could almost say for my first sample. I know it's very confusing, because you can consider that a sample, the set to be a sample, or you could consider each member of the set is a sample. So that can be a little bit confusing there. But I have this first sample mean, and then I keep doing that over and over. In my second sample, my sample size is four. I got four instances of this random variable, I average them, I have another sample mean. And the cool thing about the central limit theorem, is as I keep plotting the frequency distribution of my sample means, it starts to approach something that approximates the normal distribution. And it's going to do a better job of approximating that normal distribution as n gets larger. And just so we have a little terminology on our belt, this frequency distribution right here that I've plotted out, or here, or up here that I started plotting out, that is called-- and it's kind of confusing, because we use the word sample so much-- that is called the sampling distribution of the sample mean. And let's dissect this a little bit, just so that this long description of this distribution starts to make a little bit of sense. When we say it's the sampling distribution, that's telling us that it's being derived from-- it's a distribution of some statistic, which in this case happens to be the sample mean-- and we're deriving it from samples of an original distribution. So each of these. So this is my first sample, my sample size is four. I'm using the statistic, the mean. I actually could have done it with other things, I could have done the mode or the range or other statistics. But sampling distribution of the sample mean is the most common one. It's probably, in my mind, the best place to start learning about the central limit theorem, and even frankly, sampling distribution. So that's what it's called. And just as a little bit of background-- and I'll prove this to you experimentally, not mathematically, but I think the experimental is on some levels more satisfying with statistics-- that this will have the same mean as your original distribution. As your original distribution right here. So it has the same mean, but we'll see in the next video that this is actually going to start approximating a normal distribution, even though my original distribution that this is kind of generated from, is completely non-normal. So let's do that with this app right here. And just to give proper credit where credit is due, this is-- I think was developed at Rice University-- this is from onlinestatbook.com. This is their app, which I think is a really neat app, because it really helps you to visualize what a sampling distribution of the sample mean is. So I can literally create my own custom distribution here. So let me make something kind of crazy. So you could do this, in theory, with a discrete or a continuous probability density function. But what they have here, we could take on one of 32 values, and I'm just going to set the different probabilities of getting any of those 32 values. So clearly, this right here is not a normal distribution. It looks a little bit bimodal, but it doesn't have long tails. But what I want to do is, first just use a simulation to understand, or to better understand, what the sampling distribution is all about. So what I'm going to do is, I'm going to take-- we'll start with-- five at a time. So my sample size is going to be five. And so when I click animated, what it's going to do, is it's going to take five samples from this probability distribution function. It's going to take five samples, and you're going to see them when I click animated, it's going to average them and plot the average down here. And then I'm going to click it again, and it's going to do it again. So there you go, it got five samples from there, it averaged them, and it hit there. So what I just do? I clicked-- oh, I wanted to clear that. Let me make this bottom one none. So let me do that over again. So I'm going to take five at time. So I took five samples from up here, and then it took its mean and plotted the mean there. Let me do it again. Five samples from this probability distribution function, plotted it right there. I could keep doing it. It'll take some time. But you can see I plotted it right there. Now I could do this 1,000 times, it's going to take forever. Let's say I just wanted to do it 1,000 times. So this program, just to be clear, it's actually generating the random numbers. This isn't like a rigged program. It's actually going to generate the random numbers according to this probability distribution function. It's going to take five at a time, find their means, and plot the means. So if I click 10,000, it's going to do that 10,000 times. So it's going to take five numbers from here 10,000 times and find their means 10,000 times and then plot the 10,000 means here. So let's do that. So there you go. And notice it's already looking a lot like a normal distribution. And like I said, the original mean of my crazy distribution here was 14.45, and after doing 10,000 samples-- or 10,000 trials-- my mean here is 14.42. So I'm already getting pretty close to the mean there. My standard deviation, you might notice, is less than that. We'll talk about that in a future video. And the skew and kurtosis, these are things that help us measure how normal a distribution is. And I've talked a little bit about it in the past, and let me actually just diverge a little bit, it's interesting. And they're fairly straightforward concepts. Skew literally tells-- so if this is-- let me do it in a different color-- if this is a perfect normal distribution-- and clearly my drawing is very far from perfect-- if that's a perfect distribution, this would have a skew of zero. If you have a positive skew, that means you have a larger right tail than you would otherwise expect. So something with a positive skew might look like this. It would have a large tail to the right. So this would be a positive skew, which makes it a little less than ideal for normal distribution. And a negative skew would look like this, it has a long tail to the left. So negative skew might look like that. So that is a negative skew. If you have trouble remembering it, just remember which direction the tail is going. This tail is going towards a negative direction, this tail is going to the positive direction. So if something has no skew, that means that it's nice and symmetrical around its mean. Now kurtosis, which sounds like a very fancy word, is similarly not that fancy of an idea. So once again, if I were to draw a perfect normal distribution. Remember, there is no one normal distribution, you could have different means and different standard deviations. Let's say that's a perfect normal distribution. If I have positive kurtosis, what's going to happen is, I'm going to have fatter tails-- let me draw it a little nicer than that-- I'm going to have fatter tails, but I'm going to have a more pointy peak. I didn't have to draw it that pointy, let me draw it like this. I'm going to have fatter tails, and I'm going to have a more pointy peak than a normal distribution. So this right here is positive kurtosis. So something that has positive kurtosis-- depending on how positive it is-- it tells you it's a little bit more pointy than a real normal distribution. And negative kurtosis has smaller tails, but it's smoother near the middle. So it's like this. So something like this would have negative kurtosis. And maybe in future videos we'll explore that in more detail, but in the context of the simulation, it's just telling us how normal this distribution is. So when our sample size was n equal 5 and we did 10,000 trials, we got pretty close to a normal distribution. Let's do another 10,000 trials, just to see what happens. It looks even more like a normal distribution. Our mean is now the exact same number, but we still have a little bit of skew, and a little bit of kurtosis. Now let's see what happens if we do the same thing with a larger sample size. And we could actually do them simultaneously. So here's n equal 5. Let's do here, n equals 25. Just let me clear them. I'm going to do the sampling distribution of the sample mean. And I'm going to run 10,000 trials-- I'll do one animated trial, just so you remember what's going on. So I'm literally taking first five samples from up here, find their mean. Now I'm taking 25 samples from up here, find its mean, and then plotting it down here. So here the sample size is 25, here it's five. I'll do it one more time. I take five, get the mean, plot it. Take 25, get the mean, and then plot it down there. This is a larger sample size. Now that thing that I just did, I'm going to do 10,000 times. And remember, our first distribution was just this really crazy very non-normal distribution, but once we did it-- whoops, I didn't want to make it that big. Scroll up a little bit. So here, what's interesting? I mean they both look a little normal, but if you look at the skew and the kurtosis, when our sample size is larger, it's more normal. This has a lower skew than when our sample size was only five. And it has a less negative kurtosis than when our sample size was five. So this is a more normal distribution. And one thing that we're going to explore further in a future video, is not only is it more normal in its shape, but it's also tighter fit around the mean. And you can even think about why that kind of makes sense. When your sample size is larger, your odds of getting really far away from the mean is lower. Because it's very low likelihood, if you're taking 25 samples, or 100 samples, that you're just going to get a bunch of stuff way out here, or a bunch of stuff way out here. You're very likely to get a reasonable spread of things. So it makes sense that your mean-- your sample mean-- is less likely to be far away from the mean. We're going to talk a little bit more about in the future. But hopefully this kind of satisfies you that-- at least experimentally, I haven't proven it to you with mathematical rigor, which hopefully we'll do in the future. But hopefully this satisfies you, at least experimentally, that the central limit theorem really does apply to any distribution. I mean, this is a crazy distribution. And I encourage you to use this applet at onlinestatbook.com and experiment with other crazy distributions to believe it for yourself. But the interesting things are that we're approaching a normal distribution, but as my sample size got larger, it's a better fit for a normal distribution.









Sampling Distribution of Sample Proportion Part 1 | AP Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 9:56)Links to an external site. 


In the last video, we learned about what is quite possibly the most profound idea in statistics, and that's the central limit theorem. And the reason why it's so neat is, we could start with any distribution that has a well defined mean and variance-- actually, I wrote the standard deviation here in the last video, that should be the mean, and let's say it has some variance. I could write it like that, or I could write the standard deviation there. But as long as it has a well defined mean and standard deviation, I don't care what the distribution looks like. What I can do is take samples-- in the last video of say, size four-- that means I take literally four instances of this random variable, this is one example. I take their mean, and I consider this the sample mean from my first trial, or you could almost say for my first sample. I know it's very confusing, because you can consider that a sample, the set to be a sample, or you could consider each member of the set is a sample. So that can be a little bit confusing there. But I have this first sample mean, and then I keep doing that over and over. In my second sample, my sample size is four. I got four instances of this random variable, I average them, I have another sample mean. And the cool thing about the central limit theorem, is as I keep plotting the frequency distribution of my sample means, it starts to approach something that approximates the normal distribution. And it's going to do a better job of approximating that normal distribution as n gets larger. And just so we have a little terminology on our belt, this frequency distribution right here that I've plotted out, or here, or up here that I started plotting out, that is called-- and it's kind of confusing, because we use the word sample so much-- that is called the sampling distribution of the sample mean. And let's dissect this a little bit, just so that this long description of this distribution starts to make a little bit of sense. When we say it's the sampling distribution, that's telling us that it's being derived from-- it's a distribution of some statistic, which in this case happens to be the sample mean-- and we're deriving it from samples of an original distribution. So each of these. So this is my first sample, my sample size is four. I'm using the statistic, the mean. I actually could have done it with other things, I could have done the mode or the range or other statistics. But sampling distribution of the sample mean is the most common one. It's probably, in my mind, the best place to start learning about the central limit theorem, and even frankly, sampling distribution. So that's what it's called. And just as a little bit of background-- and I'll prove this to you experimentally, not mathematically, but I think the experimental is on some levels more satisfying with statistics-- that this will have the same mean as your original distribution. As your original distribution right here. So it has the same mean, but we'll see in the next video that this is actually going to start approximating a normal distribution, even though my original distribution that this is kind of generated from, is completely non-normal. So let's do that with this app right here. And just to give proper credit where credit is due, this is-- I think was developed at Rice University-- this is from onlinestatbook.com. This is their app, which I think is a really neat app, because it really helps you to visualize what a sampling distribution of the sample mean is. So I can literally create my own custom distribution here. So let me make something kind of crazy. So you could do this, in theory, with a discrete or a continuous probability density function. But what they have here, we could take on one of 32 values, and I'm just going to set the different probabilities of getting any of those 32 values. So clearly, this right here is not a normal distribution. It looks a little bit bimodal, but it doesn't have long tails. But what I want to do is, first just use a simulation to understand, or to better understand, what the sampling distribution is all about. So what I'm going to do is, I'm going to take-- we'll start with-- five at a time. So my sample size is going to be five. And so when I click animated, what it's going to do, is it's going to take five samples from this probability distribution function. It's going to take five samples, and you're going to see them when I click animated, it's going to average them and plot the average down here. And then I'm going to click it again, and it's going to do it again. So there you go, it got five samples from there, it averaged them, and it hit there. So what I just do? I clicked-- oh, I wanted to clear that. Let me make this bottom one none. So let me do that over again. So I'm going to take five at time. So I took five samples from up here, and then it took its mean and plotted the mean there. Let me do it again. Five samples from this probability distribution function, plotted it right there. I could keep doing it. It'll take some time. But you can see I plotted it right there. Now I could do this 1,000 times, it's going to take forever. Let's say I just wanted to do it 1,000 times. So this program, just to be clear, it's actually generating the random numbers. This isn't like a rigged program. It's actually going to generate the random numbers according to this probability distribution function. It's going to take five at a time, find their means, and plot the means. So if I click 10,000, it's going to do that 10,000 times. So it's going to take five numbers from here 10,000 times and find their means 10,000 times and then plot the 10,000 means here. So let's do that. So there you go. And notice it's already looking a lot like a normal distribution. And like I said, the original mean of my crazy distribution here was 14.45, and after doing 10,000 samples-- or 10,000 trials-- my mean here is 14.42. So I'm already getting pretty close to the mean there. My standard deviation, you might notice, is less than that. We'll talk about that in a future video. And the skew and kurtosis, these are things that help us measure how normal a distribution is. And I've talked a little bit about it in the past, and let me actually just diverge a little bit, it's interesting. And they're fairly straightforward concepts. Skew literally tells-- so if this is-- let me do it in a different color-- if this is a perfect normal distribution-- and clearly my drawing is very far from perfect-- if that's a perfect distribution, this would have a skew of zero. If you have a positive skew, that means you have a larger right tail than you would otherwise expect. So something with a positive skew might look like this. It would have a large tail to the right. So this would be a positive skew, which makes it a little less than ideal for normal distribution. And a negative skew would look like this, it has a long tail to the left. So negative skew might look like that. So that is a negative skew. If you have trouble remembering it, just remember which direction the tail is going. This tail is going towards a negative direction, this tail is going to the positive direction. So if something has no skew, that means that it's nice and symmetrical around its mean. Now kurtosis, which sounds like a very fancy word, is similarly not that fancy of an idea. So once again, if I were to draw a perfect normal distribution. Remember, there is no one normal distribution, you could have different means and different standard deviations. Let's say that's a perfect normal distribution. If I have positive kurtosis, what's going to happen is, I'm going to have fatter tails-- let me draw it a little nicer than that-- I'm going to have fatter tails, but I'm going to have a more pointy peak. I didn't have to draw it that pointy, let me draw it like this. I'm going to have fatter tails, and I'm going to have a more pointy peak than a normal distribution. So this right here is positive kurtosis. So something that has positive kurtosis-- depending on how positive it is-- it tells you it's a little bit more pointy than a real normal distribution. And negative kurtosis has smaller tails, but it's smoother near the middle. So it's like this. So something like this would have negative kurtosis. And maybe in future videos we'll explore that in more detail, but in the context of the simulation, it's just telling us how normal this distribution is. So when our sample size was n equal 5 and we did 10,000 trials, we got pretty close to a normal distribution. Let's do another 10,000 trials, just to see what happens. It looks even more like a normal distribution. Our mean is now the exact same number, but we still have a little bit of skew, and a little bit of kurtosis. Now let's see what happens if we do the same thing with a larger sample size. And we could actually do them simultaneously. So here's n equal 5. Let's do here, n equals 25. Just let me clear them. I'm going to do the sampling distribution of the sample mean. And I'm going to run 10,000 trials-- I'll do one animated trial, just so you remember what's going on. So I'm literally taking first five samples from up here, find their mean. Now I'm taking 25 samples from up here, find its mean, and then plotting it down here. So here the sample size is 25, here it's five. I'll do it one more time. I take five, get the mean, plot it. Take 25, get the mean, and then plot it down there. This is a larger sample size. Now that thing that I just did, I'm going to do 10,000 times. And remember, our first distribution was just this really crazy very non-normal distribution, but once we did it-- whoops, I didn't want to make it that big. Scroll up a little bit. So here, what's interesting? I mean they both look a little normal, but if you look at the skew and the kurtosis, when our sample size is larger, it's more normal. This has a lower skew than when our sample size was only five. And it has a less negative kurtosis than when our sample size was five. So this is a more normal distribution. And one thing that we're going to explore further in a future video, is not only is it more normal in its shape, but it's also tighter fit around the mean. And you can even think about why that kind of makes sense. When your sample size is larger, your odds of getting really far away from the mean is lower. Because it's very low likelihood, if you're taking 25 samples, or 100 samples, that you're just going to get a bunch of stuff way out here, or a bunch of stuff way out here. You're very likely to get a reasonable spread of things. So it makes sense that your mean-- your sample mean-- is less likely to be far away from the mean. We're going to talk a little bit more about in the future. But hopefully this kind of satisfies you that-- at least experimentally, I haven't proven it to you with mathematical rigor, which hopefully we'll do in the future. But hopefully this satisfies you, at least experimentally, that the central limit theorem really does apply to any distribution. I mean, this is a crazy distribution. And I encourage you to use this applet at onlinestatbook.com and experiment with other crazy distributions to believe it for yourself. But the interesting things are that we're approaching a normal distribution, but as my sample size got larger, it's a better fit for a normal distribution.




