Hypothesis Testing and P-Values | Inferential Statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 11:26)Links to an external site. 


A neurologist is testing the effect of a drug on response time by injecting 100 rats with a unit dose of the drug, subjecting each to neurological stimulus and recording its response time. The neurologist knows that the mean response time for rats not injected with the drug is 1.2 seconds. The mean of the 100 injected rats response times is 1.05 seconds with the sample standard deviation of 0.5 seconds. Do you think that the drug has an affect on response time? So to do this we're going to set up two hypotheses. We're going to say, one, the first hypothesis is we're going to call it the null hypothesis, and that is that the drug has no effect on response time. And your null hypothesis is always going to be-- you can view it as a status quo. You assume that whatever your researching has no effect. So drug has no effect. Or another way to think about it is that the mean of the rats taking the drug should be the mean with the drug-- let me write it this way-- with the mean is still going to be 1.2 seconds even with the drug. So that's essentially saying it has no effect, because we know that if you don't give the drug the mean response time is 1.2 seconds. Now, what you want is an alternative hypothesis. The hypothesis is no, I think the drug actually does do something. So the alternative hypothesis, right over here, that the drug has an effect. Or another way to think about it is that the mean does not equal 1.2 seconds when the drug is given. So how do we think about this? How do we know whether we should accept the alternative hypothesis or whether we should just default to the null hypothesis because the data isn't convincing? And the way we're going to do it in this video, and this is really the way it's done in pretty much all of science, is you say OK, let's assume that the null hypothesis is true. If the null hypothesis was true, what is the probability that we would have gotten these results with the sample? And if that probability is really, really small, then the null hypothesis probably isn't true. We could probably reject the null hypothesis and we'll say well, we kind of believe in the alternative hypothesis. So let's think about that. Let's assume that the null hypothesis is true. So if we assume the null hypothesis is true, let's try to figure out the probability that we would have actually gotten this result, that we would have actually gotten a sample mean of 1.05 seconds with a standard deviation of 0.5 seconds. So I want to see if we assumed the null hypothesis is true, I want to figure out the probability-- and actually what we're going to do is not just figure out the probability of this, the probability of getting something like this or even more extreme than this. So how likely of an event is that? To think about that let's just think about the sampling distribution if we assume the null hypothesis. So the sampling distribution is like this. It'll be a normal distribution. We have a good number of samples, we have 100 samples here. So this is the sampling distribution. It will have a mean. Now if we assume the null hypothesis, that the drug has no effect, the mean of our sampling distribution will be the same thing as the meaning of the population distribution, which would be equal to 1.2 seconds. Now, what is the standard deviation of our sampling distribution? The standard deviation of our sampling distribution should be equal to the standard deviation of the population distribution divided by the square root of our sample size, so divided by the square root of 100. We do not know what the standard deviation of the entire population is. So what we're going to do is estimate it with our sample standard deviation. And it's a reasonable thing to do, especially because we have a nice sample size. The sample size is greater than 100. So this is going to be a pretty good approximator. This is going to be a pretty good approximator for this over here. So we could say that this is going to be approximately equal to our sample standard deviation divided by the square root of 100, which is going to be equal to our sample standard deviation is 0.5, 0.5 seconds, and we want to divide that by square root of 100 is 10. So 0.5 divided by 10 is 0.05. So the standard deviation of our sampling distribution is going to be-- and we'll put a little hat over it to show that we approximated it with-- we approximated the population standard deviation with the sample standard deviation. So it is going to be equal to 0.5 divided by 10. So 0.05. So what is the probability-- so let's think about it this way. What is the probability of getting 1.05 seconds? Or another way to think about it is how many standard deviations away from this mean is 1.05 seconds, and what is the probability of getting a result at least that many standard deviations away from the mean. So let's figure out how many standard deviations away from the mean that is. Now essentially we're just figuring out a Z-score, a Z-score for this result right over there. So let me pick a nice color-- I haven't used orange yet. So our Z-score-- you could even do the Z-statistic. It's being derived from these other sample statistics. So our Z-statistic, how far are we away from the mean? Well the mean is 1.2. And we are at 1.05, so I'll put that less just so that it'll be a positive distance. So that's how far away we are. And if we wanted it in terms of standard deviations, we want to divide it by our best estimate of the sampling distribution's standard deviation, which is this 0.05. So this is 0.05, and what is this going to be equal to? This result right here, 1.05 seconds. 1.2 minus 1.05 is 0.15. So this is 0.15 in the numerator divided by 0.05 in the denominator, and so this is going to be 3. So this result right here is 3 standard deviations away from the mean. So let me draw this. This is the mean. If I did 1 standard deviation, 2 standard deviations, 3 standard deviations-- that's in the positive direction. Actually let me draw it a little bit different than that. This wasn't a nicely drawn bell curve, but I'll do 1 standard deviation, 2 standard deviation, and then 3 standard deviations in the positive direction. And then we have 1 standard deviation, 2 standard deviations, and 3 standard deviations in the negative direction. So this result right here, 1.05 seconds that we got for our 100 rat sample is right over here. 3 standard deviations below the mean. Now what is the probability of getting a result this extreme by chance? And when I talk about this extreme, it could be either a result less than this or a result of that extreme in the positive direction. More than 3 standard deviations. So this is essentially, if we think about the probability of getting a result more extreme than this result right over here, we're thinking about this area under the bell curve, both in the negative direction or in the positive direction. What is the probability of that? Well we go from the empirical rule that 99.7% of the probability is within 3 standard deviations. So this thing right here-- you can look it up on a Z-table as well, but 3 standard deviation is a nice clean number that doesn't hurt to remember. So we know that this area right here I'm doing and just reddish-orange, that area right over is 99.7%. So what is left for these two magenta or pink areas? Well if these are 99.7% and both of these combined are going to be 0.3%. So both of these combined are 0.3-- I should write it this way or exactly-- are 0.3%. 0.3%. Or is we wrote it as a decimal it would be 0.003 of the total area under the curve. So to answer our question, if we assume that the drug has no effect, the probability of getting a sample this extreme or actually more extreme than this is only 0.3% Less than 1 in 300. So if the null hypothesis was true, there's only a 1 in 300 chance that we would have gotten a result this extreme or more. So at least from my point of view this results seems to favor the alternative hypothesis. I'm going to reject the null hypothesis. I don't know 100% sure. But if the null hypothesis was true there's only 1 in 300 chance of getting this. So I'm going to go with the alternative hypothesis. And just to give you a little bit of some of the name or the labels you might see in some statistics or in some research papers, this value, the probability of getting a result more extreme than this given the null hypothesis is called a P-value. So the P-value here, and that really just stands for probability value, the P-value right over here is 0.003. So there's a very, very small probability that we could have gotten this result if the null hypothesis was true, so we will reject it. And in general, most people have some type of a threshold here. If you have a P-value less than 5%, which means less than 1 in 20 shot, let's say, you know what, I'm going to reject the null hypothesis. There's less than a 1 in 20 chance of getting that result. Here we got much less than 1 in 20. So this is a very strong indicator that the null hypothesis is incorrect, and the drug definitely has some effect.







Z-Statistics vs. T-Statistics | Inferential Statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 6:39)Links to an external site. 

I want to use this video to kind of make sure we intuitively and otherwise and understand the difference between a Z-statistic-- something I have trouble saying-- and a T-statistic. So in a lot of what we're doing in this inferential statistics, we're trying to figure out what is the probability of getting a certain sample mean. So what we've been doing, especially when we have a large sample size-- so let me just draw a sampling distribution here. So let's say we have a sampling distribution of the sample mean right here. It has some assumed mean value and some standard deviation. What we want to do is any result that we get, let's say we get some sample mean out here. We want to figure out the probability of getting a result at least as extreme as this. So you can either figure out the probability of getting a result below this and subtracted that from 1, or just figure out this area right over there. And to do that we've been figuring out how many standard deviations above the mean we actually are. The way we figured that out is we take our sample mean, we subtract from that our mean itself, we subtract from that what we assume the mean should be, or maybe we don't know what this is. And then we divide that by the standard deviation of the sampling distribution. This is how many standard deviations we are above the mean. That is that distance right over there. Now, we usually don't know what this is either. We normally don't know what that is either. And the central limit theorem told us that assuming that we have a sufficient sample size, this thing right here, this thing is going to be the same thing as-- the sample is going to be the same thing as the standard deviation of our population divided by the square root of our sample size. So this thing right over here can be re-written as our sample mean minus the mean of our sampling distribution of the sample mean divided by this thing right here-- divided by our population mean, divided by the square root of our sample size. And this is essentially our best sense of how many standard deviations away from the actual mean we are. And this thing right here, we've learned it before, is a Z-score, or when we're dealing with an actual statistic when it's derived from the sample mean statistic, we call this a Z-statistic. And then we could look it up in a Z-table or in a normal distribution table to say what's the probability of getting a value of this Z or greater. So that would give us that probability. So what's the probability of getting that extreme of a result? Now normally when we've done this in the last few videos, we also do not know what the standard deviation of the population is. So in order to approximate that we say that the Z-score is approximately, or the Z-statistic, is approximately going to be-- so let me just write the numerator over again-- over, we estimate this using our sample standard deviation-- let me do this in a new color-- with using our sample standard deviation. And this is OK if our sample size is greater than 30. Or another way to think about it is this will be normally distributed if our sample size is greater than 30. Even this approximation will be approximately normally distributed. Now, if your sample size is less than 30, especially if it's a good bit less than 30, all of a sudden this expression will not be normally distributed. So let me re-write the expression over here. Sample mean minus the mean of your sampling distribution of the sample mean divided by your sample standard deviation over the square root of your sample size. We just said if this thing is well over 30, or at least 30, then this value right here, this statistic, is going to be normally distributed. If it's not, if this is small, then this is going to have a T-distribution. And then you're going to do the exact same thing you did here, but now you would assume that the bell is no longer a normal distribution, so this example it was normal. All of Z's are normally distributed. Over here in a T-distribution, and this will actually be a normalized T-distribution right here because we subtracted out the mean. So in a normalized T-distribution, you're going to have a mean of 0. And what you're going to do is you want to figure out the probability of getting a T-value at least this extreme. So this is your T-value you would get, and then you essentially figure out the area under the curve right over there. So a very easy rule of thumb is calculate this quantity either way. Calculate this quantity either way. If you will have more than 30 samples, if your sample size is more than 30, your sample standard deviation is going to be a good approximator for your population standard deviation. And so this whole thing is going to be approximately normally distributed, and so you can use a Z-table to figure out the probability of getting a result at least that extreme. If your sample size is small, then this statistic, this quantity, is going to have a T-distribution, and then you're going to have to use a T-table to figure out the probability of getting a T-value at least this extreme. And we're going to see this in an example a couple of videos from now. Anyway, hopefully that helped clarify some things in your head about when to use a Z-statistic or when to use a T-statistic.









Hypothesis Z-Test for One Sample Mean Using Excel’s Data Analysis | Joshua Emmanuel (YouTube - 4:10)Links to an external site. 














Hypothesis T-Test for One Sample Mean Using Excel’s Data Analysis | Joshua Emmanuel (YouTube - 4:02)Links to an external site. 


Welcome! In this tutorial I’m going to be conducting a one-sample hypothesis t-test in Excel using the built-in Data Analysis command. I’ll be testing if the population mean age is significantly greater than 20 based on this sample data. We’re testing if the mean is greater than 20, so this has to be the alternative hypothesis because it contains no equality. And the null hypothesis will be µ ≤ 20. We will be conducting a t-test because the population standard deviation is unknown. Next I’m going to launch Excel to generate the statistics for the test. Here in Excel, we will be using the Built-in Data Analysis command to generate the statistics for testing the hypothesis. Click on the Data tab, and on the right here, you should see the Data Analysis command. If it’s not there, please see description on how to load it. Now, there is no listed function in Data Analysis for one sample t-tests. But we’re going to trick or fool Excel to do it. First, we create a Dummy second variable here. And input at least two 0s in it. Next, click Data, Data Analysis. And Scroll down to the second to the last option here. t-test: Two-Sample Assuming Unequal Variances Click OK. For Variable 1 range, select the actual data. And for variable 2 range, select the dummy data. For the hypothesized Mean Difference, input 20 (the test value from the hypothesis). I’m going to check labels here because I selected the labels. For the significance level alpha, I’m going to leave it at 0.05. For out output range, I’m just going to select it, click in this white cell, and click anywhere on the sheet. And then click OK. I’m going to double-click here to expand the cells. Right-click on the dummy column here to delete it (since we don’t need it). And then I’m going to clean up the title a little bit. Call it One-sample here. And then delete the word, Difference, here because we don’t need it. And that’s the output. ____ So here is our cleaned up output from Excel. Let’s set up a rejection or critical region: Since this is a one-tailed test, we will use the one tailed critical value here. And because it's a right-tailed test, we will reject the null hypothesis if the t statistic is greater than the critical value of 1.740. For the test statistic, we have a t-stat value here of 2.577. Again because this is a one-tailed test, our p-value will be the one-tailed p-value here which is 0.0098. Next we make a decision on whether or not to reject the null hypothesis. Now, the test statistic 2.577 is greater than the critical value 1.740. As a result, we will reject the null hypothesis. We can also use the p-value to arrive at the same decision. The p-value rule is to reject H0 if the p-value is less than α. Our p-value here is 0.0098 which is less than our α of .05. And that again tells us to reject the null hypothesis. Our conclusion will then be that: There is enough evidence to infer that the mean age is significantly greater than 20. And that concludes this hypothesis testing video. Thanks for watching.




