How to Calculate Chi-Square Test for Goodness of Fit (One Way) Using Excel | Statisticsfun (YouTube - 4:12)Links to an external site. 


in this tutorial I'm going to discuss Kai Square for goodness of fit and this is part of another video which I did and I do all the formulas in the other video but in this one I'm going to use Microsoft Excel I'm going to look at the expected versus observed and I'm going to make calculations using Microsoft Excel and this is part of a playlist for KI Square I'm going to look at the obser D and expected and I'll type those in and I'll calculate differences I'll square those and take that divided by the expected and this gives me my Ki Square value when I add all those up I'll go slowly during my presentation when I get to the Excel part some very quick background so you can put this in context if I picked NHL hockey players at random let's say I picked 220 which I did I would expect their birth month or birth quarters to be equally distributed that means I'd expect to have 55 players born in each of these quarters first quarter second quarter third quarter and fourth quarter so these are my actual expected values the actual observe turns out this way there's 64 in the first quarter 67 in the second quarter 45 in the 3D and 44 in the fourth quarter this is my observed so what I'm doing in this example is I'm comparing actual birth quarter with expected birth quarter now I'm going to switch over to Microsoft Excel now across the top you see quarters of the year now I'm going to type in some values I'm just going to click on the cell and type in a value and then I'm going to hit the right arrow key 64 born in the first quarter 67 born in the second quarter 45 born in the third quarter and 44 born in the fourth quarter what I expect though is 55 being born in each quarter and again I'm just typing these in so I hit the equal sign on the keyboard and I click on the 64 minus I type in minus the 55 and hit enter and it gives me nine so as you move your cursor over there you should see the plus sign and if you click on that left click probably and drag to the left it drags the formula across to all those other cells type the equal sign and I click on that cell and I put a hat to which means I'm going to square it and I'm going to drag that across to all the other cells as well go I tap in equal again and I take 81 divided by 55 and hit enter and I'm going to drag this across to all the other cells and I'm going to change the uh number of decimal two equal sign and type the word sum in the left parenthesis and I click on 1.47 and I drag across and close parentheses and there you go so the Ki Square value is 8.11 again in another video I talk about whether how to accept or reject the results and I would encourage you to watch all the videos in this playlist and you can click on that right in the right hand corner you see a link to the playlist watch it if you haven't done so already the whole playlist now I'm done







Perform Chi-Square Test of Independence in Excel (Including P-Value!) | Top Tip Bro (YouTube - 8:34)Links to an external site. 


in this tutorial i'm going to show you how to perform a chi-squared test of independence by using microsoft excel this includes step-by-step instructions to generate a p-value as always please do drop a like on the video if you find it useful and without further ado let's jump into excel and get started for this example let's say i have a sample of 200 people that visited my local pub 100 of these were males and 100 were female from these subjects i asked them if they were a smoker or non-smoker so there were 29 males that smoked and 71 that didn't and for the females there were 16 smokers and 84 non-smokers since these are the actual values for my experiment they are known as the observed values what i want to do is to perform a chi-squared test of independence to see if there is an association between gender and smoking status in my sample the first step to performing a chi-squared test is to add up each of the rows and columns in the contingency table here by using the sum function so let's add up the values for the smokers column to do this in a new cell i will enter equals sum open bracket then i'll highlight the cells in the column close the bracket and then press the enter key so in total there were 45 smokers i now need to repeat this process for the next column to copy the formula across i can simply select the cell i just calculated and you see the little green square in the lower right corner of the cell well click and drag this across to copy the formula excel will then calculate the sum for the non-smokers column in this example as you can see there were 155 non-smokers in total in my sample next i need to do a similar process but calculate the sum of the rows so to do this for the males i will select an empty cell then i will enter equals sum open bracket then i will highlight the two cells in the first row close the bracket and then press the enter key and as mentioned at the start you can see that there are 100 males in this sample again i will select this cell and copy the formula down to the cell underneath by dragging the little green square the final thing we need to do here is to calculate the total to do this you can either calculate the total value of the columns or the rows since the answer will be the same either way i will calculate this using the rows values so in a new cell i will again enter equals sum open bracket then i'll highlight the row sums then i will close the bracket and then press the enter key as expected we have a total value of 200 moving on we next need to work out the expected value for each entry in the table to work out the expected value you must multiply each row total by each column total and then divide that answer by the overall total let's do this for the male smokers so here i'll enter equals open bracket then i'll select the cell containing the row total then i'll multiply this by the cell containing the columns hotel i'll then close the bracket and divide by the cell containing the overall total and finally i'll press the enter key to run the formula so we would expect that there would be 22.5 male smokers in this example i'll repeat this process for the male non-smokers so in a new cell i will enter equals open bracket then i'll select the cell containing the row total then i'll multiply this by the cell containing the column total i'll then close the bracket and divide by the cell containing the overall total then i'll press the enter key so we would expect to see 77.5 male non-smokers in this example i now need to repeat this process for the females i'll speed this up since the process is exactly the same as i've just shown you for the males now i have all my expected values the next step is to subtract the expected from the observed values square it and then divide by the expected value so i'll do this for the male smokers first in a new cell i'll enter equals open bracket then i will select the observed value which is this cell here subtract the cell containing the expected value and then i'll close the bracket to square this you enter the carrot symbol then two then i'll divide this answer by the cell containing the expected value finally i'll press enter to work this out i get an answer of 1.88 when rounded i now need to repeat this process for the rest of my table again i can use excel's auto complete feature by selecting the small green square in the corner of the cell and dragging it down then i will drag it across to the right now i have all the values for my table next we need to calculate the chi-squared value and to do this we simply add up all of the values in this table we just calculated so in a new cell i will enter equal sum open bracket then i'll select all of the cells in the table i'll then close the bracket and then press enter to perform the calculation so the chi-squared value for this experiment is 4.85 when rounded next we need to calculate the degrees of freedom here the degrees of freedom is calculated by firstly subtracting 1 from the number of rows in the test then multiply this answer by the number of columns in the test subtract one so my example this would be two subtract one multiply by two subtract one which gives an answer of one so i will add one to this cell here the final step in performing the chi-squared test is to take the chi-square and degrees of freedom values and work out the p-value to do this in a new cell i will enter h equals s q dot dist dot r t open bracket then i will select the cell containing the chi square value add a comma then i will select the cell containing the degrees of freedom i'll close the bracket and then press the enter key to run the formula i get a p-value of 0.028 when rounded to interpret the p-value i will state my two hypotheses my null hypothesis was there is no association between gender and smoking status and my alternative hypothesis was there is an association between gender and smoking status if my alpha level or significance threshold was set at 0.05 this would mean i would fail to reject the null hypothesis if p is greater than 0.05 on the other hand if p is less than 0.05 i will reject the null hypothesis and accept the alternative hypothesis in this case my p-value was 0.028 since this value is less than 0.05 i will reject the null hypothesis and accept the alternative hypothesis therefore there does seem to be an association between gender and smoking status going back to excel there is in fact a function that you can use to calculate the chi-square p-value by just using the observed and expected table values to do this in a new cell enter equals chi sq dot test open bracket then highlight the values in the observed table add a comma then highlight the values in the expected table close the bracket and then press the enter key and as you can see the p-value is the same as we calculated previously and that wraps up this video tutorial you now know how to perform a chi-square test of independence by using microsoft excel if you found this video useful please leave a like it really does help support the channel if you've got a question pop it down in the comments below also consider subscribing for more weekly tutorials









Hypothesis Test for Difference of Means | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 10:06)Links to an external site. 



In the last video, we came up with a 95% confidence interval for the mean weight loss between the low-fat group and the control group. In this video, I actually want to do a hypothesis test, really to test if this data makes us believe that the low-fat diet actually does anything at all. And to do that let's set up our null and alternative hypotheses. So our null hypothesis should be that this low-fat diet does nothing. And if the low-fat diet does nothing, that means that the population mean on our low-fat diet minus the population mean on our control should be equal to zero. And this is a completely equivalent statement to saying that the mean of the sampling distribution of our low-fat diet minus the mean of the sampling distribution of our control should be equal to zero. And that's because we've seen this multiple times. The mean of your sampling distribution is going to be the same thing as your population mean. So this is the same thing is that. That is the same thing is that. Or, another way of saying it is, if we think about the mean of the distribution of the difference of the sample means, and we focused on this in the last video, that that should be equal to zero. Because this thing right over here is the same thing as that right over there. So that is our null hypothesis. And our alternative hypothesis, I'll write over here. It's just that it actually does do something. And let's say that it actually has an improvement. So that would mean that we have more weight loss. So if we have the mean of Group One, the population mean of Group One minus the population mean of Group Two should be greater then zero. So this is going to be a one tailed distribution. Or another way we can view it, is that the mean of the difference of the distributions, x1 minus x2 is going to be greater then zero. These are equivalent statements. Because we know that this is the same thing as this, which is the same thing as this, which is what I wrote right over here. Now, to do any type of hypothesis test, we have to decide on a level of significance. What we're going to do is, we're going to assume that our null hypothesis is correct. And then with that assumption that the null hypothesis is correct, we're going to see what is the probability of getting this sample data right over here. And if that probability is below some threshold, we will reject the null hypothesis in favor of the alternative hypothesis. Now, that probability threshold, and we've seen this before, is called the significance level, sometimes called alpha. And here, we're going to decide for a significance level of 95%. Or another way to think about it, assuming that the null hypothesis is correct, we want there to be no more than a 5% chance of getting this result here. Or no more than a 5% chance of incorrectly rejecting the null hypothesis when it is actually true. Or that would be a type one error. So if there's less than a 5% probability of this happening, we're going to reject the null hypothesis. Less than a 5% probability given the null hypothesis is true, then we're going to reject the null hypothesis in favor of the alternative. So let's think about this. So we have the null hypothesis. Let me draw a distribution over here. The null hypothesis says that the mean of the differences of the sampling distributions should be equal to zero. Now, in that situation, what is going to be our critical region here? Well, we need a result, so we're going to need some critical value here. Because this isn't a normalized normal distribution. But there's some critical value here. The hardest thing is statistics is getting the wording right. There's some critical value here that the probability of getting a sample from this distribution above that value is only 5%. So we just need to figure out what this critical value is. And if our value is larger than that critical value, then we can reject the null hypothesis. Because that means the probability of getting this is less than 5%. We could reject the null hypothesis and go with the alternative hypothesis. Remember, once again, we can use Z-scores, and we can assume this is a normal distribution because our sample size is large for either of those samples. We have a sample size of 100. And to figure that out, the first step, if we just look at a normalized normal distribution like this, what is your critical Z value? We're getting a result above that Z value, only has a 5% chance. So this is actually cumulative. So this whole area right over here is going to be 95% chance. We can just look at the Z table. We're looking for 95% percent. We're looking at the one tailed case. So let's look for 95%. This is the closest thing. We want to err on the side of being a little bit maybe to the right of this. So let's say 95.05 is pretty good. So that's 1.65. So this critical Z value is equal to 1.65. Or another way to view it is, this distance right here is going to be 1.65 standard deviations. I know my writing is really small. I'm just saying the standard deviation of that distribution. So what is the standard deviation of that distribution? We actually calculated it in the last video, and I'll recalculate it here. The standard deviation of our distribution of the difference of the sample means is going to be equal to the square root of the variance of our first population. Now, the variance of our first population, we don't know it. But we could estimate it with our sample standard deviation. If you take your sample standard deviation, 4.67 and you square it, you get your sample variance. And so this is the variance. This is our best estimate of the variance of the population. And we want to divide that by the sample size. And then plus our best estimate of the variance of the population of group two, which is 4.04 squared. The sample standard deviation of group two squared. That gives us variance divided by 100. I did before in the last. Maybe it's still sitting on my calculator. Yes, it's still sitting on the calculator. It's this quantity right up here. 4.67 squared divided by 100 plus 4.04 squared divided by 100. So it's 0.617. So this right here is going to be 0.617. So this distance right here, is going to be 1.65 times 0.617. So let's figure out what that is. So let's take 0.617 times 1.65. So it's 1.02. This distance right here is 1.02. So what this tells us is, if we assume that the diet actually does nothing, there's a only a 5% chance of having a difference between the means of these two samples to have a difference of more than 1.02. There's only a 5% chance of that. Well, the mean that we actually got is 1.91. So that's sitting out here someplace. So it definitely falls in this critical region. The probability of getting this, assuming that the null hypothesis is correct, is less than 5%. So it's smaller probability than our significance level. Actually, let me be very clear. The significance level, this alpha right here, needs to be 5%. Not the 95%. I think I might have said here. But I wrote down the wrong number there. I subtracted it from one by accident. Probably in my head. But anyway, the significance level is 5%. The probability given that the null hypothesis is true, the probability of getting the result that we got, the probability of getting that difference, is less than our significance level. It is less than 5%. So based on the rules that we set out for ourselves of having a significance level of 5%, we will reject the null hypothesis in favor of the alternative that the diet actually does make you lose more weight.







Confidence Interval of Difference of Means | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 15:48)Links to an external site. 

We're trying to test whether a new low-fat diet actually helps obese people lose weight. 100 randomly assigned people are assigned to group one and put on the low-fat diet. Another 100 randomly assigned obese people are assigned to group two and put on a diet of approximately the same amount of food, but not as low in fat. So group two is the control, just the no diet. Group one is the low fat group, to see if it actually works. After four months, the mean weight loss was 9.31 pounds for group one. Let me write this down. Let me make it very clear. So the low fat group, the mean weight loss was 9.31 pounds. So our sample mean for group one is 9.31 pounds, with a sample standard deviation of 4.67. And both of these are obviously very easy to calculate from the actual data. And then for our control group, the sample mean, 7.40 pounds for group two. With a sample standard deviation of 4.04 pounds. And now, if we just look at it superficially, it looks like the low-fat group lost more weight, just based on our samples, than the control group. If we take the difference of them. So if we take the difference between the low-fat group and the control group, we get 9.31 minus 7.40 is equal to, let's get the calculator out, 1.91. So the difference of our samples is 1.91. So just based on what we see, maybe you lose an incremental 1.91 pounds every four months if you are on this diet. And what we want to do in this video is to get a 95% confidence interval around this number. To see that in that 95% confidence interval, maybe, do we always lose weight? Or is there a chance that we can actually go the other way with the low-fat diet? So in this video, 95% confidence interval. In the next video, we'll actually do a hypothesis test using this same data. And now to do a 95% confidence interval, let's think about the distribution that we're thinking about. So let's look at the distribution. Of course we're going to think about the distribution that we're thinking about. We want to think about the distribution of the difference of the means. So it's going to have some true mean here. Which is the mean of the difference of the sample means. Let me write that. It's not a y, it's an x1 and x2. So it's the sample mean of x1 minus the sample mean of x2. And then this distribution right here is going to have some standard deviation. So it's the standard deviation of the distribution of the mean of x1 minus the sample mean of x2. It's going to have some standard deviation here. And we want to make an inference about this. Or I guess, the best way to think about it, we want to get a 95% confidence interval. Based on our sample, we want to create an interval around this, where we're confident that there's a 95% chance that this true mean, the true mean of the differences, lies within that interval. And to do that let's just think of it the other way. How can we construct an interval around this where we are 95% sure that any sample from this distribution, and this is one of those samples, that there is a 95% chance that we will select from this region right over here. So we care about a 95% region right over here. So how many standard deviations do we have to go in each direction? And to do that we just have to look at a Z table. And just remember, if we have 95% in the middle right over here, we're going to have 2.5% over here and we're going to have 2.5% over here. We have to have 5% split between these two symmetric tails. So when we look at a Z table, we want the critical Z value that they give right over here. And we have to be careful here. We're not going to look up 95%, because a Z table gives us the cumulative probability up to that critical Z value. So the Z table is going to be interpreted like this. So there's going to be some Z value right over here where we have 2.5% above it. The probability of getting a more extreme result or Z score above that is 2.5%. And the probability of getting one below that is going to be 97.5%. But if we can find whatever Z value this is right over here, it's going to be the same Z value as that. And instead of thinking about it in terms of a one tail scenario, we're going to think of it in a two tail scenario. So let's look it up for 97.5% on our Z table. Right here. This is 0.975, or 97.5. And this gives us Z value of 1.96. So Z is equal to 1.96. Or 2.5% of the samples from this population are going to be more than 1.96 standard deviations away from the mean. So this critical Z value right here is 1.96 standard deviations. This is 1.96 times the standard deviation of x1 minus x2. And then this right here is going to be negative 1.96 times the same thing. Let me write that. So this right here, it's symmetric. This distance is going to be the same as that distance. So this is negative 1.96 times the standard deviation of this distribution. So let's put it this way, there's a 95% chance that our sample that we got from our distribution-- this is the sample as a difference of these other samples. There's a 95% chance that 1.91 lies within 1.96 times the standard deviation of that distribution. So you could view it as a standard error of this statistic. So x1 minus x2. Let me finish that sentence. There's a 95% chance that 1.91, which is the sample statistic, or the statistic that we got, is within 1.96 times the standard deviation of this distribution of the true mean of of the distribution. Or we could say it the other way around. There's a 95% chance that the true mean of the distribution is within 1.96 times the standard deviation of the distribution of 1.91. These are equivalent statements. If I say I'm within three feet of you, that's equivalent to saying you're within three feet of me. That's all that's saying. But when we construct it this way, it becomes pretty clear, how do we actually construct the confidence interval? We just have to figure out what this distance right over here is. And to figure out what that distance is, we're going to have to figure out what the standard deviation of this distribution is. Well the standard deviation of the differences of the sample means is going to be equal to, and we saw this in the last video-- in fact, I think I have it right at the bottom here-- it's going to be equal to the square root of the variances of each of those distributions. Let me write it this way. So the variance, I'll kind of re-prove it. The variance of our distribution is going to be equal to the sum of the variances of each of these sampling distributions. And we know that the variance of each of these sampling distributions is equal to the variance of this sampling distribution, is equal to the variance of the population distribution, divided by our sample size. And our sample size in this case is 100. And the variance of this sampling distribution, for our control, is going to be equal to the variance of the population distribution for the control divided by its sample size. And since we don't know what these are, we can approximate them. Especially, because our n is greater than 30 for both circumstances. We can approximate these with our sample variances for each of these distributions. So let me make this clear. Our sample variances for each of these distributions. So this is going to be our sample standard deviation one squared, which is the sample variance for that distribution, over 100. Plus my sample standard deviation for the control squared, which is the sample variance. Standard deviation squared is just the variance divided by 100. And this will give us the variance for this distribution. And if we want the standard deviation, we just take the square roots of both sides. If we want the standard deviation of this distribution right here, this is the variance right now, so we just need to take the square roots. Let's calculate this. We actually know these values. S1, our sample standard deviation for group one is 4.67. We wrote it right here, as well. It's 4.76 and 4.04. The S is 4.67, we're going to have to square it. And the S2 is 4.04, we're going to have to square it. So let's calculate that. So we're going to take the square root of 4.67 squared divided by 100 plus 4.04 squared, divided by 100. And then close the parentheses. And we get 0.617. Let me write it right here. This is going to be equal to 0.617. So if we go back up over here, we calculated the standard deviation of this distribution to be 0.617. So now we can actually calculate our interval. Because this is going to be 0.617. So if you want 1.96 times that, we get 1.96 times that 0.617, I'll just write the answer we just got. So we get 1.21. So the 95% confidence interval is going to be the difference of our means, 1.91, plus or minus this number, 1.21. So what's our confidence interval? So the low end of our confidence interval, and I'm running out of space, 1.91 minus 1.21, that's just 0.7. So the low end is 0.7. And then the high end, 1.91 plus 1.21, that's 2.12. let me just make sure of that. My brain sometimes doesn't work properly when I'm making these videos. 3.12. So just to be clear, there's not a pure 95% chance that the true difference of the true means lies in this. We're just confident that there's a 95% chance. And we always have to put a little confidence there, because remember, we didn't actually know the population standard deviations, or the population variances. We estimated them with our sample. And because of that, we don't know that it's an exact probability. We just have say we're confident that it is a 95% probability. And that's why we just say it's a confidence interval. It's not a pure probability. But it's a pretty neat result. So we're confident that there's a 95% chance that the true difference of these two samples-- and remember, let me make it very clear, the expected value of the sample means is actually the same thing as the expected value of the populations. And so, what this is giving us is actually a confidence interval for the true difference between the populations. If you were to give everyone, every possible person, diet one. And every possible person diet two. This is giving us a confidence interval for the true population means. And so when you look at this, it looks like diet one actually does do something. Because in any case, even at the low end of the confidence interval, you still have a greater weight loss than diet two. Hopefully, that doesn't confuse you too much. In the next video, we're actually going to do a hypothesis test with the same data.






