Hypothesis Test for Two Proportions in Excel | Let's Eat Pi (YouTube - 6:30)Links to an external site. 



this video is going to show you how to do a to proportion Z test in Excel and so I'm going to start with the claim I have here there is no difference in proportion between two populations and I'm given a level of significance and the sample sizes and the proportions the sample proportions for the two samples so my claims my hypothesis looks like this for the claim is the null hypothesis it says there's no difference so that means they're equal and so this is going to be a two-tailed test looking at the alternative hypothesis and since I am dealing with proportions I'm going to be using a normal distribution now in some problems you can be given the X values and you have to calculate the proportions then in this case I've been given the proportions and I have to calculate the number of successes and in either case I'm using this formula here if I was given X Y we just divide X by n to get this point 7 2 because I was given P hat well if I take P hat times the at the end that will give me the x value that I need so here I'm going to do this one times and then I'll just copy that over to repeat it for the second population and so with most of these what I'm doing is I'm calculating some test statistic here it's a Z because I'm using a normal distribution and then I find the area to the left or to the right of that test statistic and so here is the formula for how many calculate this test is a test statistic and this one is pretty complicated it's even broken down into two formulas with this P bar is right here so I'm going to break this down quite a bit over here to make sure that I don't get lost in all those calculations so I'm going to start with this P bar which is often referred to as the pooled proportion and so that's going to be the sum of the exes and I need those to add before they divide so I put parentheses around it and then divide that by the sum of the ends and again I need those samples to be sample sizes to be added before the division happens so I put parentheses around those as well so there it is P bar now I need 1 minus P bar also referred to as Q Bar M in this formula so I'm gonna go ahead and calculate that as well so 1 minus what I just got there and that's something else that's inside that square at the bottom is the sum of 1 over each sample so did that as well so 1 over N 1 plus 1 over into and parentheses are probably not necessary here but sometimes I just like to err on the side of caution okay so there's that and so I have pretty much everything I need mr. Beck calculating the numerator now this piece right here is actually zero because we're always assuming that the null hypothesis is true and so if those are equal subtracting them would actually give me 0 so I'm really just gonna focus on this first set of parentheses in the top so equals sum of P values make sure you're doing the peas not the XS and then the denominator is gonna be the square root of all those things I calculated so P bar times Q Bar times those sample sizes and those are all inside the square root so there's the denominator for my Z statistic so now I just have to divide those so ya know finally we've got our Z statistic I just realized I made a mistake here I added instead of subtracted right here it's really easy to make a mistake with these okay that looks much better okay so remember I want to Z square that's not too crazy big or crazy small so this is a much better looking z-score alright so now I have my z-score all I need to do is start calculate those p-values I'm gonna do all three tails just in case I've been dealing with a different type of test nice time using the normal distribution so for the area to the left of the z-score it's known as stop dist and it is Z swore and it's cumulative because I want everything to the left and there is my p value if I was to being a left tailed test if I was doing a right tailed test will be everything to the right of my z score so I can just do one minus what I just got and there is my value for a right tailed test if I'm doing a two tailed test I'd want to take the smaller of these two values I just got and double it to get both tails so I'm going to do two times and then these two whichever is the smaller I want to multiply that 1 by 2 and there is my p-value for a two-tailed test which this one is and so if I compare that to my level of significance well this is definitely bigger than 0.01 so it's greater than alpha so if I come over to my decision rule when P is greater than alpha then I fail to reject the null hypothesis and since our claim is the don't lie pathi sis it means I can't reject the claim either so there is not enough evidence to reject









Confidence Intervals for the Difference Between Two Proportions | AP Statistics | Khan Academy (YouTube - 8:42)Links to an external site. 


- [Instructor] Let's review calculating confidence intervals for proportions. So let's say I have a population, and I care about some proportion. Let's say I care about the proportion of folks that are left-handed. I don't know what that is, and so I take a sample of size n, and then from that sample, I can calculate a sample proportion. That's why I put that little hat on top of it. It's a sample proportion that's estimating our true proportion. Now I wanna construct a confidence interval, but before I go down the path, I need to actually set up my conditions for inference, make sure that I meet them. And we've done this many times. So the first condition for inference is the random condition. I need to feel good that this is truly a random sample from the population. The second one is often known as the normal condition, and that's the condition that hey, in order to feel like the sampling distribution for the sample proportions is roughly normal, n times our sample proportion should be greater than or equal to 10 and n times one minus our sample proportion should be greater than or equal to 10. We've seen that multiple times before. And then the third one is the independence condition, and there's two ways to meet this. Either the individual observations in our sample should be done with replacement or if it's not done with replacement, we can feel pretty confident about this if our sample size is no more than 10% of the size of the entire population. But let's say that we meet these conditions for inference, what do we do? Well we come up, we set up a confidence level, confidence level, for our confidence interval that we're about to construct. And let's say we said it was a 95% confidence level. That would mean that 95% of the time that we went through this exercise, the confidence interval that we get would actually overlap with the true population proportion. And 95% is actually a fairly typical one. But from that confidence level, you can calculate a critical value. And the way that you do that, you just look up in a z-table, and once again all of this is review. You would say hey how many standard deviations above and below the mean of a normal distribution would you need to go in order to get say 95%, that confidence level of the distribution. And now we're ready to calculate the confidence interval, confidence interval. It is going to be equal to our sample proportion plus or minus our critical value, our critical value, times the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of the sample proportion. Now there is a way to calculate this exactly if we knew what p is. If we knew what p is, this would be the square root of p times one minus p over n. But if we knew what p is, then we wouldn't even have to do this business of constructing confidence intervals. So instead, we estimate this. We say look, an estimate of the standard deviation of the sampling distribution, often known as the standard error, an estimate of this is going to be the square root of, instead of the true population parameter, we could use the sample proportion. So p hat times one minus p hat, all of that over n. Now the whole reason why I did this, this is covered in much more detail and much slower in other videos, is to see the parallels between this and a situation when we're constructing a two-sample confidence interval or z-interval for a difference between proportions. What am I talking about? Well let's say that you have two different populations. So this is the first population, and it has some true proportion of the folks that let's say are left-handed, and then there's another population. So let's call that p two. You know maybe this is freshmen in your high school or college and maybe this is sophomores, so two different populations, and you wanna see if there's a difference between the proportion that are left-handed, say. And so what you could do, just like we've done here, is for each of these populations, you'll take a sample here, we'll call that n one, and then from that sample you calculate a sample proportion, let's call that p one. And then from this second population, we do the same thing. This is n two. Notice n one and n two do not have to be the same sample size. That's a common misconception when doing these things. These could be different sample sizes. And then from that sample, you calculate the sample proportion. Now after you do that, you would wanna check your conditions for inference. And it turns out that the conditions for inference would be exactly the same. Do both of these samples meet the random condition? Do both of these samples meet the normal condition? And do both of these samples meet the independence condition? And if both samples meet these conditions for inference, then we would have to calculate our critical value. And you would do it the exact same way. I'll just write it down again. So first, you need to check all of these. Then you would take your confidence level, confidence level, and from that get a critical z. And then you're ready to say what your confidence interval's going to be. So your confidence, confidence interval, interval for p one minus p two, so it's the confidence interval for the difference between these true population proportions. That is going to be equal to the difference between your sample proportions, so p hat one minus p hat two, p hat two, plus or minus, plus or minus your critical value right over here times the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of the difference between the sample proportions. So it would be p hat one minus p hat two. And so we already know how to calculate this, how to calculate this, how to calculate this. How do we calculate that? Well I will just give you the formula first, but then we just have to appreciate that this just comes outta the properties of standard deviations and variances that we have studied in the past. So the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of the difference between the sample proportions, it is a mouthful, this is going to be approximately equal to, approximately equal to the square root of p hat one times one minus p hat one over n one, over n one, plus, plus, p hat two times one minus p hat two over n two. And then you put that there. You have constructed your confidence interval. And once again how would you interpret that? Well let's say your confidence level is 90%, and from that you're able to construct this confidence interval. That would mean that 90% of the time that you go through this exercise, your confidence interval would overlap with the true difference between these population parameters, the true difference between these population proportions. Now where did this thing come from? Well you might notice some similarities here. This part over here is an estimate or it's approximately equal to the variance of the sampling distribution of the sample proportion for our first population. And then this right over here once again is approximately going to be equal to the variance of the sampling distribution for the sample proportions for this population, for p two. How did I know that? Well look if this is approximately the standard deviation, you square that, you approximately get the variance. And so the big takeaway is, is that the variance for the sampling distribution of the difference is just the sum of the variances of each of those sampling distributions. That's a lotta big mouthful and I know it can get confusing, but hopefully that makes sense. And that's where this formula comes from, and so it's really not that much more to remember. In the next few videos we're gonna do many more examples, both looking at these conditions and calculating confidence intervals and critical values.



