hi my name is Paul and today I would like to show you how to derive the Doppler shift formula now why am I doing this well number one someone's asked me to actually do it so here you go but secondly I think it's really important for science students and physics students in particular to know that when we have these complex formulas in this case the Doppler shift formula they're not just plucked out of thin air and it's important to understand the principles at which they today come about and in this case we're going to see that simple kinematics and understanding of the wave equation allows us to derive the formula for the Doppler shift [Music] now quick reminder of what the Doppler shift is and it's basically the changing frequency due to the relative motion between a source and observer now I'm gonna give you a quick demo and but obviously I've gone through greater explanations in some previous videos which encourage you to look and I'll put the link up there and also in the description below so I'm hoping that you already are familiar with a little bit of the Doppler shift here's a quick review I have a phone here I have a little app here that allows me to play a particular frequency in this case my frequency is gonna be 700 Hertz and it's gonna be picked up on my microphone underneath my chin but what I'm gonna do now is move it rapidly towards me and away from me now yes there's gonna be slight changes in amplitude but if you listen carefully you will hear a change in frequency or pitch [Music] okay so your frequency that you hear isn't necessarily the frequency of the source it depends on the relative motion in this case the source is moving now let's quickly review what you or already should know about the Doppler shift and I encourage you to look at the video before we go ahead but here is a summary we have two situations where we have relative motion between the absorbs erver where they're moving towards each other and we have relative motion where the source and observer are moving away from each other and you see that the formulas are very similar we have our perceived frequency which is a if - is equal to the actual frequency of the source and then we've got this relationship here that involves three velocities the velocity of the wave the velocity of the observer and the velocity of the source and you can see that we adding things up the top and subtracting and when we look at the other side where we have relative motion moving away from each other we have a minus at the top and the plus a down the bottom so how does this formula come about so let's now break it down and discuss the derivation so in our first example here we're going to see where we're only dealing with the velocity of the source being the one that's actually moving that the observer is stationary and so I want to make sure we annotate here so we have this distance across here which is our wavelength of our way between the two crests but of course this is moving and it's moving a certain distance now what is that distance well distance is equal to simply the velocity multiplied by the time and so our case that distance is going to be equal to the velocity of the source I'll use a subscript s multiplied by the time in this case because it's about the waves it's actually the same as the period and so this distance here is actually the wave length that's perceived by the observer so let's put that together what we get is our perceived wave length that the observer picks up is equal to the original wave length of our wave - the distance in this case it's going to be the velocity of the source multiplied by T your understanding of wave equation is really important here so Union should know that the velocity of any wave is simply equal to if lambda but it can also be written as lambda over T but of course we're interested in the frequency so we want the perceived frequency well that's equal to the velocity of the wave divided by my per seed lambda and so now I can have is my velocity of the wave over lambda minus velocity of the source multiplied by T now what I'm going to do isn't going to take this section here and I'm going to pull out velocity of the wave over lambda so I'm going to say this is equal to the velocity of the wave over lambda now what would I have left over here well I'm gonna have one on the numerator that's fine but if I'm gonna pull the lambda out I'm gonna have one and then - I'm gonna have the velocity of the source multiplied by T over lambda what a now have here is the frequency because of velocity of the wave divided by lambda is simply the frequency and then what I have over here is still 1 over 1 minus but I'm going to clean this up but do remember my relationship up over here I still have the velocity of the source here but I have T over lambda well lambda over T but what's that that's the velocity so now we've got the inverse of that so I'm going to put velocity down at the bottom and so now I have this equation here the frequency that is perceived is equal to the original frequency multiplied by 1 over 1 minus the velocity of the source over V now I want you to remember that particular formula because we're going to look at it very briefly shortly so now let's have a look at the other situation in this case the velocity of the observer is the thing that's moving that a person is moving towards a stationary source and so in this case the velocity that is actually experiencing here it's actually combination so in other words the velocity that the observer picks up is not just the velocity of the wave but also the velocity that they themselves have so the new velocity that is picked up is the velocity of the wave plus the velocity of the observer so now what we're going to do is we're going to look at the period in this case the period being the person period well that's equal to the wavelength divided by the velocity which in this case is our velocity of the wave plus the velocity of the observer again we're not interested in the period we're interested in the frequency so what we're gonna say is that the frequency that observed well the frequency is the inverse of the period so I'm going to simply say the velocity of the wave plus the velocity of the observer over lambda again like we did before we're going to try to pull out the frequency term and so the frequency term in this case is going to begin about the velocity of the wave so we've got the velocity of the wave over lambda so that is actually our frequency we won't clean that up in a moment but what do I have left on the outside well again I have one plus the velocity of the observer over the velocity of the wave over well nothing that's going to be just one so now if I clean that up I get the frequency that is observed is equal to the original frequency multiplied by one plus the velocity of the observer over the velocity of the wave so there is our formula where we're dealing with the source being stationary and the observer is the one that's moving but remember both can occur at the same time and you remember what we had before well we had the frequency that observed is equal to the original frequency multiplied by 1 over 1 minus the velocity of the source divided by the velocity of the wave so what I'm going to do now is I'm going to combine those two formulas together because both can occur so I get the frequency those observed is equal to the original frequency now the top becomes this numerator so I have 1 plus the velocity of the observer over the velocity of the wave over 1 minus the velocity of the source over the velocity of the wave you see where we're heading if I now multiply both the top and the bottom by the velocity of the wave just like that what do I get I get the frequency as observed is equal to the frequency that we originally had and then I get the velocity of the way plus the velocity of the observer over the velocity of the wave minus the velocity of the source so there is the formula that we had when the two objects were approaching now I'm not going to go through the second situation where the objects are moving away from it relatively speaking because it's actually the same process what's different though is very simple the difference is is that the signs will be different so I'm going to get a minus up the top and I'm gonna get a plus down the bottom notice how I put this up so when the formula is written down we have plus minus at the top and minus plus down the bottom so if the objects are moving towards each other we're going to get an increase in frequency that's perceived so we're gonna have to have the plus at the top and the minus then the bottom that will make the number bigger than one if we have the objects moving away that is the source and the observer moving away from each other relatively speaking then we have a smaller number for the numerator so we have the minus at the top and the plus down the bottom so there you have it there is the derivation using the wave equation and some simple kinematics to determine the Doppler shift formula now this of course applies to the motion of objects with sound this is not the same as we have for example where we look at the Doppler shift in terms of light because the key thing here is is that with light the speed of light is constant for all observers no matter what the observer or source is doing and that means we're gonna have to need a different formula any case my name is Paul from high school fees he explained please like share and subscribe please follow my channel and ring the bell so that you get the latest updates and if this has been helpful you put Conte down below take care bye for now


in this video we're going to talk about the doppler effect the doppler effect is a phenomenon where the frequency that is detected by some observer changes because either the source is moving or the observer is moving so let's say we have a source and this source emits sound waves in all directions and let's say we have an observer if the source moves towards the observer or if the observer moves towards the source of the sound waves the frequency that is detected by the observer that's ethyl that frequency is going to increase which means the frequency measured by the observer will be greater than the frequency of the source so let me give an example of some numbers so let's say you have a source that's moving towards this person the source may have a frequency of 800 hertz but the frequency that the person will hear is going to be higher than 800 it might be 850 hertz and so that's the basic idea behind the doppler effect whenever the source or the observer is moving the detected frequency is going to shift it's going to be different than the original frequency that the source emitted so whenever the source or the observer moves toward each other the observed frequency is going to be bigger than the source frequency now the reverse is true let's say if the source is moving away from the observer or if the observer is moving away from the source then the frequency that the observer detects that's going to decrease which means that it's going to be less than the original frequency emanated or emitted by the source now let's draw a picture so here's the source and we're going to draw some waves around the source okay my drawing's not perfect but we'll make the best of that let's make one more wave so let's say we have a person here we'll say this is john and to the left is karen now the source of the sound wave this could be like an ambush trunk or a police car this is moving towards john and let's say that the frequency emitted by the source is 1000 hertz john let's say john and karen are stationary observers they're not moving so their speed their vo is zero now as the source of the sound moves towards john the frequency that john is gonna hear is going to be higher than a thousand it might be eleven hundred now the source is moving away from karen so the frequency that karen detects is going to be less than a thousand it's going to be like maybe 900 or 800 and let's talk about why as the source moves toward john notice that the distance between the crest of the waves is decreasing so therefore the wavelength is decreasing whenever the wavelength decreases the frequency increases so that's one of the reasons why the frequency increases as the source moves towards john is because the distance between waves is decreasing but now as the source moves away from karen we can see that the distance between the waves is increasing so as the wavelength goes up the frequency goes down so anytime the source moves away from a person the frequency is going to go down because the wavelength is increasing but when the source moves towards a person the wavelength decreases and so the frequency goes up so that's a visual representation of how the doppler effect work when the source is moving and the observer is stationary but now let's talk about the formula that we could use to solve problems the observed frequency is equal to the frequency of the source times v and then it's plus or minus v naught over v and then you could write this as plus or minus or minus plus you can still get the right answer regardless of how you choose to write the write the equation but what you need to realize is that v is the speed of sound which is 343 meters per second now the speed of sound in air is dependent on the temperature and here's the formula that describes that relationship the speed of sound is approximately 331 plus 0.6 t where t is the temperature in celsius and v is going to be the speed in meters per second so at a temperature of zero degrees celsius this disappears you simply get a speed of approximately 331 meters per second when a temperature is 20 degrees celsius based on that equation the speed is let me use the approximate symbol it's approximately 343 meters per second and at 25 degrees celsius the speed is approximately 346 meters per second so the speed increases by 26 meters per second for every increase in one degree celsius in temperature when the temperature increases by 5 degrees celsius the speed increases approximately by three meters per second so that's the formula that would help you to get an estimate of the speed of sound in air given the temperature but if the temperature is not specified we're going to assume that the temperature is at 20 degrees celsius so we're going to go with this number so if you're not given the temperature or the speed of sound simply use 343 meters per second for the problems that we're going to solve in this video now in order to use this equation successfully you need to know when to use the positive side and the negative sign in the numerator and in the denominator of that fraction so how do we choose when to use what sign well we need to have an understanding of fractions a fraction is made up of two parts there is the numerator on the top and the denominator on the bottom now what you need to know is that the value of the numerator is proportional to the value of the fraction so what does that mean when you increase the value of the numerator the value of the fraction goes up so in that sense they're proportional what happens to one happens to the other if you decrease the value of the numerator the value of the fraction goes down now the situation is different for the denominator of a fraction the denominator is inversely related to the value of the entire fraction that means when one goes up the other goes down so if you were to increase the value of the denominator the value of the entire fraction decreases and if you decrease the value of the denominator the value of the entire fraction increases so make sure you understand that relationship feel free to write this down because we're going to use it to talk about when to use these signs so let's consider the first situation that is when the source is moving towards the observer so vs represents the speed of the source vo represents the speed of the observer if the observer is stationary that means vo is zero if the source is stationary that means vs zero but let's say in this situation the observer is stationary but the source is moving towards the observer what sign should we use in front of vs should it be positive or negative so the fact that the source is moving towards the observer what's going to happen to the frequency that is fo any time one moves towards the other do we know the frequency is going to be higher fo is going to increase now vs is in the denominator of the fraction so if we want the whole fraction to increase should we increase the denominator or should we decrease it well we know the denominator is inversely related to the value of the fraction so if we want the value of the entire fraction to go up we need the denominator to go down so therefore the only way we can decrease the value of the denominator is to use a negative in front of the s so when the source moves towards the observer we're going to use negative vs that's going to decrease the value of the denominator which will increase the value of the fraction and so the observed frequency is going to be higher than the source frequency now let's consider the other situation that is when the source moves away from the observer when the source moves away from the observer we know that the frequency that is observed or detected by the observer that has to go down the source velocity is still in the bottom of the fraction it's still in the denominator so the only way we can decrease the value of the entire fraction to get a lower fo value is to increase the value of the denominator so we need to use positive vs if we increase the value of the denominator the value of the whole fraction goes down fo becomes less than fs now let's consider the next situation so here we have the source and this time the observer is going to move toward the source now when the observer moves towards the source we know that the detected frequency is going to increase and we're dealing with vo now not vs and vo is in the numerator of the fraction so should we use positive vo or negative vo what would you say well since fo is going to increase the value of the entire fraction has to go up and to accomplish that using the numerator we need the numerator to increase so therefore we need to use a positive sign for vo that's going to increase the numerator now what about if the observer is moving away from the source if he's moving away f o is going to decrease so in order to decrease the value of the whole fraction we need to decrease the numerator so therefore we need to use the negative sign in front of vo so let's put this all together in one page and what i'm going to do is i'm going to reverse the position of the source and the observer because the signs of v will correspond to the direction of the arrow along the x-axis so in this situation we're going to have the source moving towards the observer and when that happens we're going to use negative vs notice that the arrow is pointing towards the left if you put the source on the right and the observer on the left the direction of the arrow is going to correspond to the sign in front of v so when the source moves towards the person use negative vs the denominator will decrease and the value of the fraction and thus the detector frequency will go up now for the next scenario the source is moving away from the observer so we're going to use positive vs notice that the arrow is pointing towards the right in the positive x direction so in this case the denominator is going to increase in value the frequency is going to decrease in value now for the next situation here's the observer and this time the observer is going to move towards the source as the observer moves towards the source we know that the detective frequency is going to go up and so the numerator has to go up thus we need to use positive vo now for the fourth situation the observer is moving away from the source so the detective frequency is going to go down and the numerator must go down in order to accomplish that so this is going to be negative vo so as you can see when you place the observer on the left and the source on the right the sign in front of v corresponds to the direction of the arrow so it's negative going towards the left positive going towards the right if we put the observer on the left and the source on the right that's only when it's going to work out that way but any time the source or the observer moves toward one another in all cases we see that the observed frequency increases and whenever either the source or the observer moves away from each other the detected frequency decreases so make sure you understand that concept of the doppler effect so now let's work on some problems number one an ambulance truck emits a sound with a frequency of 800 hertz part a what is the frequency detected by a stationary observer if the ambulance truck is moving 30 meters per second toward the observer and we're given the speed of sound and air at 20 degrees celsius which is 343 meters per second so let's go ahead and work on this problem let's draw a picture now it's going to make it a lot easier if we put the observer on the left and we're going to put the source on the right the source is going to be the ambulance truck it's emitting a sound with a frequency of 800 hertz the frequency is also related to the pitch they're the same so a sound with a high pitch has a high frequency now this ambulance truck which is the source it's moving towards the observer and here's the formula fo is equal to fs and then it's v plus or minus vs i mean that should be vo over v plus or minus vs so we need to determine if vs should be positive or negative so the arrow points towards the left vs is going to be a negative so if we choose a negative value we know that the denominator is going to decrease and the value of the whole fraction and thus fo is going to increase which is what should happen whenever the source moves towards the observer the detected frequency should go up so now that we know which sign we need to use we can go ahead and get the answer so the source frequency is 800 the speed of sound is 343. the observer is stationary so he's not moving anywhere vo is zero and then vs we're going to use a negative value the source is moving towards the observer at 30 meters per second so this is going to be 800 times 343 and then 343 minus 30 that's 313. so the detected frequency measured by the observer is approximately 877 hertz so this is the answer to part a now let's move on to part b what frequency will be detected if the ambulance truck is moving 30 meters per second away from the observer so we still want the source to be to the right of the observer and let's rewrite the equation now what should we use for the sign of vs so the arrow is pointing towards the right this is going to be positive vs so this works if you put the observer on the left and the source on the right now as we can see when if we choose a positive sign for vs the denominator will increase in value and so the value of the whole fraction is going to go down and the source as it moves away from the observer we expect that the detected frequency or the observed frequency should be less than the original source frequency so let's go ahead and get the answer the source frequency is still 800 the speed of sound is still 343 vo is still 0 but this time we're going to use positive vs and vs is 30. so it's going to be 800 times 343 and then 343 plus 30 that's 373. so this is going to be and 736 hertz so as you can see it's less than 800 which is what should happen when the source moves away from the observer the pitch or the frequency should decrease so that's how you can solve some basic doppler effect problems in physics number two a stationary ambulance truck emits a frequency of 1200 hertz calculate the frequency detected by the observer if the observer is driving toward the ambulance truck at 25 meters per second so let's begin with a picture we're going to put the observer on the left side just like before and we're going to put the source on the right side now in this problem the observer is moving towards the source now let's write our formula so we need to determine if we're going to use positive or negative vo so what would you say should it be plus vo or minus vo well because the observer is moving towards the source and for this particular situation it's going to be plus vo and here's how we can reason like we've been reasoning before as the observer moves towards the source we know that the detective frequency has to go up and since the vo is in the numerator the only way in which we can increase the detected frequency using the numerator is to increase the numerator and that can only happen if we use positive vo so now that we know the sign of vo we can plug in the data that we have so the source frequency is 1200 v in this problem is 343 the source is stationary so vs is zero and then vo is moving at 25 meters per second so that's the observer now 343 plus 25 that's going to be 368 and we're going to divide that by 343 so for part a the frequency measured by the observer is going to be 1287.46 but let's round that to nearest whole number so we'll say 1287 hertz so that's the frequency that the driver is going to detect as he moves towards the amblin struck now let's move on to part b in part b the observer is driving away from the ambulance truck so this time he's going in this direction so it's going to be negative vs because he's moving away we know that the detective frequency will decrease relative to the source frequency and to accomplish that we need to decrease the numerator so we need to use i put vs i meant to put vo so we need to use a negative vo so let's go ahead and plug that in so the source frequency is still 1200 v is still 343 vs is still zero but the only thing that's different here is we're going to plug in a negative vo which is so it's going to be negative 25. 343 minus 25 is 318. so it's going to be 1200 times 318 divided by 343 and so for part b the frequency picked up by the observer it's going to be if you round it to the nearest whole number 1113 hertz so as you can see it's less than 1200 because the driver is moving away but for the first part it's greater than 1200 because the drive is moving towards uh the source of the sound now let's move on to the next problem number three a police car is moving west at 20 meters per second toward a driver who is moving east at 25 meters per second the police car emits a frequency of 900 hertz what frequency is detected by the driver so feel free to try this problem for the sake of practice now let's draw a picture so as long as we place the observer on the left side and the source on the right side the signs of vo and vs they're going to match with the direction of the velocity of these two objects along the x-axis now the police car which is basically the source of the sound it's going to be moving west so it's going this way at a speed of 20 meters per second now the driver is moving east or towards the right at a speed of 25 meters per second so automatically because we have the observer on the left and a source and a right the direction of the arrow is going to be the same as it's going to be aligned with the sign of vo and vs so we're going to use a positive value for vo and a negative value for vs and just to confirm it the observer is moving towards the source so that action will increase the detected frequency vo is in the numerator of the fraction so in order to increase the frequency we need to increase the value of the numerator and so we need to choose a positive value for vo as opposed to a negative value now the action taken by the source as it moves towards the observer that action will also increase the detected frequency vs is in the denominator of the formula and in order to increase the value of the fraction we need to decrease the value of the denominator and we can accomplish that by using negative es so i want you to understand how that works because that can help you to choose the appropriate sign if these two are not in the the right position so now that we have everything that we need let's go ahead and plug it in to our formula so the observed frequency is going to equal the source frequency which in this problem that's 900 hertz and then that's going to be 343. now we're going to use plus vo so the speed of the observer is 25 meters per second and then we're going to use minus vs the speed of the source or the police car is moving 20 meters per second west so this is going to be 900 343 plus 25 we know that's 368. 343 minus 20 that's 323. so 900 times 368 divided by 323. so we get this answer the observed frequency is going to be 1 25 hertz so as we can see it's significantly higher than the source frequency of 900 because both the source and the observer are moving toward each other so that's going to greatly increase the frequency that is detected by the observer you

In this video, we're going to talk about sound waves. A sound wave is a type of longitudinal wave. Now, you need to know the difference between a transverse wave and a longitudinal wave. A wave on a string, for example, forms a longitudinal wave. The wave is moving in the x direction, but the oscillations are up and down. It's perpendicular to the wave motion. the oscillations are in the y direction. Whenever the oscillations are perpendicular to the wave motion, you have a transverse wave. A soundwave is not a transverse wave. A soundwave is a longitudinal wave. A sound wave is basically a pressure wave. In air, as sound travels through air, you're going to have regions of high and low pressure. The regions in dark gray represent the regions of high pressure where the molecules are close together. The regions shaded in white are areas of low pressure where the molecules are spread apart. So a sound wave in air is basically an oscillating pressure wave. Now the reason why a sound wave is considered a longitudinal wave is because the oscillations are parallel to the wave direction. Notice that the oscillations are in the x direction. So in the region of low pressure, you have expansion. The air molecules expand in this region. This is also known as refraction. In the regions of high pressure, you have the molecules compressed. Compression occurs at that region. So the density is higher at that point. So for sound to travel it needs a medium. Sound can travel through any fluid like a gas or liquid. It can travel through water or it can even travel through solids. But sound doesn't travel through space because space is empty. There's no molecules to carry the sound wave because sound is basically a pressure wave. The speed of sound in air is about 343 m/s. This is at a a temperature of 20° C. The speed of sound depends on things like temperature, density, and even the type of material that sound travels through. For solids, the speed of sound is equal to the square root of the elastic modulus divided by the density. If you increase the elastic modulus, the speed of sound will increase. If you increase the density, the speed of sound will decrease. This equation applies for solids, for liquids and gases or any type of fluid. You can use the bulk modulus. If you increase that, the speed of sound increases. These equations, they look similar to the equation that gives you the velocity of a a standing wave or the velocity of any wave on a string. It's equal to the tension force divided by the linear density. So, as you can see, the speed of sound is inversely related to density. As the density increases, the speed of sound decreases. A good example to illustrate this is comparing the speed of sound between air and helium. Helium is lighter than air. You notice because if you put helium inside a balloon, the balloon will rise. The speed of sound in air is about 343 m/s. The speed of sound in helium is about 1,000 m/s. Now the elastic factor or the elastic modulus is roughly the same for these two gases but the speed is higher in helium because helium is less dense than air. So as we can see whenever you increase the density the speed decreases and if you decrease the density the speed will increase. Interestingly the speed of sound in solids tends to be much higher than that of liquids and the speed of sound in liquids tends to be higher than that of gases. So if we take steel which is a solid the speed of sound is about 5,000 m/s. This is a rough estimate. And in a liquid such as water, the speed of sound is about 1440 meters/s and in air is uh 343 m/s. Now we said that as the density increases the speed should decrease. Steel is much more dense than water or air. So we should expect a lower velocity but you need to take into account the elastic modulus which this is much higher for solids. So this elastic factor causes the speed to increase. So apparently it must be greater for solids than liquids. But generally speaking the speed of sound in a solid tends to be much higher than that of a liquid. And the speed of sound in a liquid is usually higher than that compared to air. The speed of sound in air also depends on temperature. If you increase the temperature, the speed will increase as well. The equation that shows this relationship is V is equal to 331 + 6 * T. So at 0° C the velocity of sound is about 331 m/s but at 20° C the speed of sound is 343 m/s. At higher temperatures air molecules are moving faster and so they can conduct sound at a much higher rate. So sound travels faster whenever the temperature of the air is higher. Now let's talk about some terms that you need to know. What is the definition of the word subsonic? And what about supersonic? The prefix sub carries the idea of something that's less than or below. Super means something that's greater than or above. Subsonic is less than the speed of sound. So let's say a train moving at 60 m hour or let's say 30 m/s is traveling at subsonic speeds. A jet that is moving at 800 m/s is traveling at a supersonic speed. Supersonic represents an object that is moving at a speed greater than the speed of sound in air. So a jet moving at 800 m/s can create a very loud sonic boom because it's going faster than the speed of sound. Now you also need to know the audible range. The range of frequencies that we can hear sound. We can hear sound from the range of 20 hertz to 20,000 hertz or 20 kHz. Kilo represents a thousand. So 20 kHz is 20,000 htz. As we age, the upper limit of frequency that we can hear sound decreases. So older people may not hear frequencies as high as 20 kHz. Some older folks may hear sounds up to like 15 kHz. It really depends on the individual. Dogs, for example, they can hear frequencies up to 50,000 hertz, which is 50 kHz. Bats can go even higher, up to 100 kilohz. Now, what is meant by the terms infrasonic and ultrasonic? Infrasonic are sounds that have a frequency less than 20 hertz. Ultrasonic represent sounds that have a frequency greater than 20 kHz. A good example of infrasonic sounds are sounds that have a lot of bass. They have a very low pitch. The word pitch has to do with the frequency of sound. So like an earthquake has a very loud rumble but it has a low pitch. Thunder, volcanoes, heavy machinery, these things they have a low pitch or low frequencies related to them. A sound with a very high pitch has a high frequency. A good example of the use of ultrasonic waves, think of sonar. Submarines use sonar to detect moving objects that are far away from them. Even bats, they use ultrasonic waves to detect if there's an object in front of them. Now, as we mentioned before, sound is basically an oscillating pressure wave. It's a longitudinal wave. It can cause air molecules to compress or expand creating regions of high and low pressure. So a sound wave can cause air molecules to be displaced. So let's say if we plot the displacement of air molecules on the y- ais and time on the x axis, we're going to get an oscillating function. Basically a sinosoidal function. The amplitude of this wave is basically the height of the wave. Now this can continue. The wavelength is the distance between the two crusts of the wave. The highest point is the crest. The lowest point is the trough. One cycle is basically this portion of the wave. That's one cycle. The period which is represented by capital t is the time it takes to complete one cycle. So the time it takes to start from this position, go up to its maximum and back to its original value and then go down to its minimum back to its original value. That is one cycle. The time it takes to complete a single cycle is the period. So you can find the period by taking the total time and dividing it by the total number of cycles. If you do that, you'll get the time it takes to complete a single cycle. The frequency is the reciprocal of the period. The frequency is the number of cycles that occur in a single second. So you can find it by dividing the total number of cycles by the total time. Now there's some other equations that you need to know. We know that speed is equal to distance / time. The distance is measured in meters. The time is measured in seconds. So the speed of the wave is basically the wavelength measured in meters divided by the period which is measured in seconds. So we can write V as being the wavelength time 1 / the period. And if you recall the frequency is 1 / the period. So therefore the velocity or the speed of the wave is the wavelength times the frequency. Make sure you know this equation. Now, let's work on some problems. What is the frequency of a sound wave that has a wavelength of 95 cm at 20°? For each of these problems, feel free to pause the video and work on them yourself. That's the best way to learn physics. So the equation that relates frequency and wavelength is this equation. The speed of the wave is equal to the wavelength times the frequency. But we need the wavelength to be in meters, not centimeters. So let's convert it. 1 meter is equal to 100 cm. So the unit centimeters cancel. So to convert it to meters, we need to divide by 100, which is the same as moving the decimal two units to the left. So 95 cm equates to.95 m. Now the velocity of sound at 20° is about 343 m/s. So now we can use the formula. So v is 343. Lambda the wavelength is 0.95. So let's solve for f. So it's going to be 343 / 0.95. So the frequency is 361.1 hertz. By the way, one hertz is equal to 1 / seconds or seconds to the minus one. So if you see those units, this is the unit of frequency. By the way, for all future problems in this video, if I don't give you the speed of sound, assume it to be 343 meters/s, unless I give you a temperature that's different than 20°, at which point the speed of sound may change. If I don't give you any extra details, assume that the speed of sound is 343 m/s for the rest of the video. So, let's try this problem. If a lightning strike occurred exactly one mile from your location, how many seconds will it take the sound waves created by the thunder to reach your ears? Now, keep in mind the speed of light is very, very high. Light travels at 3 * 10 8 m/s. So, light will reach your eyes much faster than the sound waves. Sound takes a longer time to reach your ears than the light waves. So by the time you see the lightning strike, the sound hasn't really traveled that far. So how long does it take a sound wave to travel one mile? How many seconds? So we know d is equal to vt. We have the distance which is 1 mile and we have the speed which is 343 m/s. So we need to divide the distance by the speed. However, the units, they don't match. We need to convert miles into meters. So, we're going to solve it as a conversion problem. It turns out that one mile is equal to 1.609 609 km and 1 km is equal to 1,000 m. Now if sound travels at a speed of 343 m/s, that means that in 1 second it covers a distance of 343 m. So we can cancel the unit miles, the unit kilometers will cancel and meters will cancel giving us the units. So let's multiply 1.609* 1,00 / 343. So it's going to take sound roughly about 4.69 69 seconds. Or if you want to, you can round it to about 5 seconds. It's going to take about 5 seconds for sound to reach your ears. So, let's say if it takes 10 seconds for you to hear the thunder, that means that the lightning strike occurred approximately 2 miles from your location. If it takes 15 seconds for you to hear the thunder, then the lightning strike occurred approximately 3 miles from your location. What is the speed of sound in air at 10°? So, we can use the formula V is equal to 331 + 6 * T. So that's going to be 331 + 6 times the temperature in Celsius. 6 * 10 is 6. 331 + 6 is 337. So it's going to be 337 m/s. Now at this temperature, what is the wavelength of a 1.5 kHz soundwave? So we have the frequency but let's convert it from kilohz to hertz. 1 kohz is about a th00 hertz. So we have a frequency of 1500 htz. So now using the equation wavelength time frequency is equal to speed. The wavelength is going to be the speed divided by the frequency. So it's uh 337 / 1500 and that's equal to.225 m. So that's the wavelength which is about 22.5 cm. Now the first thing we should do in this problem is draw a picture. So let's say this is the ground and here we have a lake and then there's a cliff and here's the person. So the person shouts. The sound travels across the lake and is reflected by the cliff and goes back to the person and the person hears the reflected soundwave 3.4 seconds later after the person shouts. Using this information, what is the length of the lake? Now, keep in mind the time it takes to go from the person to the cliff and then back to the person is 3.4 seconds. So, this is the time to make the round trip. But the time it takes to go just from the person to the cliff is half the time. It takes 1.7 seconds to go from position A to position B. So, we can use the equation D is equal to VT. We're looking for the length of the lake, which is the distance that the sound travels from A to B. We know the speed of sound is 343 m/s. And if it takes 1.7 seconds to go from A to B, then the distance that it travels is simply 343 * 1.7. So we can say that the length of the lake is 583.1 m. So this is it. The next topic of discussion is intensity. And what exactly is intensity? Intensity is defined as the power divided by the area. Typically the area is usually the surface area of a sphere which is 4 pi r^ 2. The unit for power is the watt and the unit for r which is the type of distance is meter. So intensity has the unit watts per square meter. Now keep in mind power is work divided by time and work is the amount of energy that's transferred. Work is measured in jewels. Time is measured in seconds. So one watt it represents the transfer of one jewel per second. 50 watts tells you that in 1 second 50 jewels of energy is being transferred. So power is the rate of energy transfer. Now let's say if we have a sound source and let's say 1 meter away from the sound source the intensity is 90 watts per square meter. What will happen to the intensity if we double the distance? According to the formula, intensity is inversely related to the square of the distance. This is known as the inverse square law. So if you double the distance, if you plug in two for r, the intensity is going to be 1/4 of its original value. So if you divide 90 by 4, you should get an intensity of 22.5 watts per square meter. Now what if you triple the distance? What happens to the intensity of the sound wave? So 1 3^2 is 1 over 9. So it's going to reduce by a factor of 9. So to find it, divide this number by 9. So it's going to be 10 watts per square meter. So as you can see if you increase the distance the intensity decreases. Likewise if you decrease the distance the intensity will increase. So what is the intensity at a distance of let's say half a meter or.5 meters? What do you think the answer is? So, because we reduce the distance by a half, let's plug in 1/2 into R. 1/2^ 2 is 1/4. 1 / 1/4 is 4. So, it's going to increase by a factor of four. So, it's going to be 360 watts per square meter. And it makes sense because as you move closer to the source, it's going to sound louder. If you're at an event with music being played, as you walk towards the speakers, it's going to sound louder. As you move away from the speakers, the intensity will be reduced. Now going back to this equation, wavelength time frequency equals speed. At constant speed, what is the relationship between wavelength and frequency? If you increase the wavelength of a sound wave, what happens to the frequency? These two are inversely related. If you increase the wavelength, the frequency decreases. So if you increase the wavelength by a factor of two, the frequency will be 1/2 of its original value. If you decrease the wavelength by a factor of three, the frequency will increase by a factor of three. So anytime you decrease the wavelength, the frequency will increase. So those two are inversely related. Now the next thing we need to talk about that is related to intensity is intensity level. The sound intensity level is known as the decibel or is measured in units of decibel. Here's the equation B which is measured in decel which has the unit dB. It's equal to uh 10 times log I / I kn. I represents the intensity of the sound wave. I Z is the threshold of hearing. This is the lowest intensity that the human ear can detect sound. So we can barely hear a sound of 1 * 10 -2 watts per square meter. Now this is the reference level for the decibel system. The decibel system arose due to the fact that loudness and intensity are not exactly directly proportional in your linear way so to speak. Let's say if you increase the intensity by a factor of 10, the loudness, which I'm just going to use L, the loudness will not increase by a factor of 10. It's going to increase by a factor of two. So if you increase the intensity by a factor of 10, the sound wave is not going to sound 10 times louder. To us, it's only going to sound two times as loud or twice as loud. However, the intensity level will increase by an addition of 10. Not a multiplication of 10, but an addition of 10. So if you multiply the intensity by a factor of 10, the loudness will increase by a factor of 10, but the decibel level, the intensity level will increase by an addition of 10. Let's use a table to describe the relationship between sound intensity, intensity level, and loudness. So I represents the intensity in watts per square meter. And then we're going to have the intensity level which is measured in decibb. And then we're going to have the loudness. So let's start with the threshold of hearing an intensity of 1 * 10 -12. The intensity level is zero because that is the reference level. And let's assign it a loudness of 1. Now if we increase the intensity by a factor of 10, the exponent will increase by one. 10^ 2 is 100. 10 the 3r is 1,000. 1,000 is 10 times more than 100, but the exponent differs by 1. 10^ 2 and 10 the 3r the exponent differs by one but the value differs by a factor of 10. The intensity level of this sound wave at that intensity will be 10 dB, but it's going to sound twice as loud. So if we increase the intensity by another factor of 10, the sound level will increase by an addition of 10 and the loudness will increase by two. So now it's four times as loud compared to this sound. So if we increase it by another factor of 10, this is going to increase by an addition of 10 and the loudness will be twice as loud as before. Now I wrote -19 but I meant to write99. Now if we increase it by 10 again this is going to increase by 10 and this is going to be it's going to have a loudness of 16. Now what if we increase it by a factor of 100? Let's say if we skip 7 and go to -6. So if you increase the intensity by a factor of 100, the intensity level will increase by an addition of 20. So it's going to be a value of 60. And the loudness will increase by a factor of four. 16 * 4 is 64. Now what if we increase it let's say by a factor of 10^ the 4 which is 10,000 the decibel level will increase by 40 so it's now going to be 100 which means the loudness will increase by a factor of 2 to the 4th power which is 16 64 * 16 is24 four. Now, if we increase it by another 100, I know I'm running out of space, so I'm going to write it in red. 1 * 10 0 is simply 1. So, at an intensity of 1 watt per square meter, the decimal level is going to be 120. Since we increase the intensity by a factor of 100, the decibel level will increase by an addition of 20 and the loudness will increase by a factor of four. So it's going to have a value of 4,96. So at this level, the threshold of hearing, you can barely hear the sound. At a sound level of 20, it sounds like a whisper. At a sound level of 60 dB, that's the sound of ordinary conversation. 100 dB is basically the loudness of a siren. And 120 is basically the threshold of pain. Beyond 120, sound is painful. It's too loud. A sound source emits 36 jewels of energy per minute. What is the power emitted by the sound source? Power is work divided by time. And work is basically how much energy is transferred. So you can think of power as being energy divided by time which is jewels /. So we have 36 jewels of energy emitted per minute or per 60 seconds. So therefore the power transferred in units of watts is going to be 36 / 60 which is about6 watts. So this means that every second the sound source emits 6 jewels of energy. So this is the answer to part A. Now what about part B? What is the intensity 5 m away from the source? Intensity is power divided by surface area. So we have6 watts being emitted and a distance is 5 m. So we need to replace r with five. So you should get an intensity of 1.91 * 10us 3 watts per square meter. Now what is the intensity level at this distance? We need to use this equation to calculate the intensity level. It's 10 times log of the intensity which is 1.91 * 10us 3 / i or i which is the intensity of the threshold of hearing and that's 1 * 10 -2 1.9 * 10 - 3 / 1 * 10 - 12 is 1.91 1 * 10 the 9. If you take the log of that value, you should get 9.28 * 10 gives you a sound intensity level of 92.8 dB. What is the intensity of a soundwave that has an intensity level of 75 dB? So starting with this equation, we need to rearrange it to solve for the intensity. So let's go ahead and do that first. The first thing we should do is divide both sides by 10. So the intensity level divided by 10 is equal to log intensity over the threshold of hearing. Now let's review some things about logs. Let's say if you have log base a of b equal to c, you can convert it to exponential form by using this equation. A raised to the c power is equal to b. So for example log 2 of 8 is equal to 3 because 2 to the 3 power is equal to 8. So knowing that the base of log is always base 10 if there's no other number provided. So 10 raised to the b / 10 is equal to what's inside. That's i So I / I is equal to 10 raised to the intensity level / 10. So now let's multiply both sides by I. So the intensity is equal to the threshold of hearing multiplied by 10 raised to the intensity level / 10. So now that we have the equation we can use it to answer the question. I not is 1* 10us12. The intensity level is 75 and we're going to divide it by 10. 75 / 10 is 7.5. So we have 10 raised to the 7.5. So the final answer is about 3.16* 10 - 5 watts per square meter. So this is the intensity at an intensity level of 75. In this problem, we're given the intensity at a distance of 2 m. What is the new intensity at a distance of 5 m for part A? What equation can we use to solve a problem like this? So, let's divide I2 by I1. The intensity is power divided by area. Now, because the source is the same, the power emitted by the source is the same. However, the distance from the source is different. So, I'm going to put a subscript of two so that it's associated with I2. So I1 is going to be P because it's from the same source divided by 4 pi R1^ 2. So we can cancel the power. They're the same and we can cancel 4 pi. So therefore we have the equation I2 I1 is equal to 1 / R2 / 1 / R1^ 2. Now let's multiply top and bottom by R1^ 2. If we do that, these two will cancel. And so we're going to have the equation I2 / I1 is equal to R1^ 2 / R2 2. So from this equation we can see that the intensity is inversely related to the square of the uh distance. The inverse relationship um you can see it due to the fact that the subscripts they don't match. They're opposite to each other. And also you can see the square for each of the R values. So you can see how it's similar to this relationship. So this is the formula that we need to use in order to solve it. We're looking for I2. I1 is 100. R1 is 2. R2 is 5. So let's cross multiply. 100 * 2^ 2. What is that? 2 ^2 is 4 and 4 * 100 is 400. And that's going to equal I2 * 5^ 2. 5^2 is 25. 400 / 25 is 16. So this is equal to I2. So if we compare the two answers, the intensity decreased from 100 to 16. Anytime you increase the R value, the intensity will decrease. Whenever you move away from the source, the intensity will decrease. As you move away from a speaker, it's going to sound not as loud as before. Another way in which you can get the answer is by using the inverse square law. So notice that the distance increased from 2 to 5. If you take five and divide it by two, you're going to get 2.5. So the distance increased by a factor of 2.5. So therefore using the inverse square law if we plug in 2.5 into r 1 / 2.5^ squar is basically 16 or 4 over 25. So therefore the intensity should decrease by that factor. So multiply it by 16 which is 1 over 2.5^2 100 * 16 will give you the answer of 16. So now let's see if we can get the answer for the second part of the problem using the same process. So this time R2 is 1.3. So notice that we're closer to the source which means that the intensity should be greater than 100. So the distance decreased by what factor? If we divide 1.3 by 2, it decreased by a factor of 65. So now if we plug that in to this relationship 1 over65^2 is about 2 367. So the intensity should increase by this value. So if we multiply by 2.367, it should be 236.7 watts per square meter. But let's use the formula to confirm that answer. So I2 / I1 is equal to R1^ 2 / R2 2. So I1 is 100, R1 is 2, R2 is 1.3. So let's cross multiply. 1.3^2 is about 1.69. So we have 1.69 * I2 and that's equal to 2 ^2 * 100, which is 400. So I2 is just going to be 400 / 1.69. and you're gonna get the same answer of 236.7 watts per square meter. So there's multiple ways in which you can get the same answer. But as you can see because the distance was decreased, the intensity increased. It went up from 100 to 236.7. The intensity level of a certain sound source is 98 dB at a distance of 12 m. What is the intensity level at a distance of 150 m? In the last example, we had an equation that connected the intensity with the distance. Now, we need a new equation that connects intensity level with distance. So, what can we do? How can we come up with an equation that can help us to solve this particular problem? So go ahead and pause the video and work out this example. Now we know that the intensity is equal to I * 10 raised to the intensity level / 10. We came up with this equation earlier in the video. So therefore we can say that I2 / I1 is equal to I2 is going to be I 10 raised to the B sub 2 the intensity level that corresponds to I2 over 10 and I1 is going to be I kn* 10 raised to the B1 / 10. So we can cancel I knot and keep in mind I2 I1 is equal to R1^2 over R2 2. So now let's ignore this portion of the equation and let's focus on these two since they are equal to each other. Now what is x^ the 7th power / x^ the 3 power? In algebra, you've learned that it's x to the 4th power. It's 7 - 3 is equal to 4. So knowing that, what is 10 b2 / 10 / 10 raised to the b1 / 10? So this is going to be 10 and we're going to take the top exponent and subtract it by the lower one or the one on the bottom. So 10 B2 / 10 minus B1 / 10, which is simply the same as B2 minus B1 / 10. And that's equal to R1^ 2 / R2 Now let's take the log of both sides. A property of logs allows us to take the exponent and move it to the front. So we could say that b2 - b1 / 10 * log of 10 is equal to log r1^ 2 - r2 or divid r2 2. log of 10 is equal to 1. Keep in mind if there's no base then it's assumed to be a 10. Log base 10 of 10 is one. So this disappears. So b2 minus b1 / 10 is equal to log r1^ 2 / r2 2. So now let's multiply 10 by both sides. So b2us b1 is equal to 10 log r1 / r2. So now we can come up with our final equation. Let's add B1 to both sides. So B2 is equal to B1 plus 10 log R1 2 / R2 2. So we know that B1 is 98 dB. We're looking for B2. R1, the distance that corresponds to a sound level of 98 dB, is 12 m. R2 is 150 m. So, at this point, we just got to plug it into the equation. So b2 is going to equal b1 which is 98 + 10 log r1 which is 12 2 / r2 which is 150^ 2. So if you type this in your calculator, log 12^2 / 150^2 is about -2.1938 * 10. So we have uh b2 which is going to be 98 plus -21.938. So if we combine those two numbers, you should get a 76. Well, let's round this to 76.1. So this is the sound level at the new distance. And it makes sense. If we increase the distance, then the sound level should decrease. These two are always inversely related. So now you have an equation that relates the sound level to the distance. Let's try this one. A 65 dB soundwave strikes a surface with an area of 3 * 10 - 4 m. How much power is absorbed by the surface assuming 100% absorption? Well, first we need to calculate the intensity. The intensity is equal to I * 10 raised to the decimal level / 10. So this is 1 * 10 -12 * 10 raised to the 65 / 10. So the intensity is 3.162 * 10 - 6 watt per square meter. Now we know that intensity is equal to the power / the area. So intensity time area is equal to the power measured in watts. So we're looking for the power in part a. So that's going to be the intensity which has the units watts per square meter multiplied by the area which is in square meters. So the unit square meters will cancel giving us the unit in watts which is the unit for power. So therefore the surface absorbs 9 486 * 10 to the - 10 watt. Now what about part B? How much energy in jewels is absorbed in 4 hours? Now we know power is equal to energy divided by time. So the energy is basically the product of the power multiplied by time and the unit watt is basically the number of jewels per second. So the energy absorbed well first let's find how much time in seconds is equal to 4 hours. So let's convert hours into seconds. So there's 60 minutes in an hour and there's 60 seconds in a minute. So it's 4 * 60 * 60 So, we have 14,000 and 400 seconds. So now we can calculate the total energy absorbed. So it's going to be 9.486* 486 * 10 - 10 jewels/ second multiplied by 14,400 seconds. So these units will cancel. So the total energy absorbed is about 1 3 66 * 10 - 5 JW. Now, here's a question for you. If we increase the frequency of a soundwave, what happens to the intensity of a sound wave? Will it increase or decrease? It turns out that the intensity will increase if you increase the frequency. And if you increase the amplitude, the intensity will increase as well. But let's come up with an equation that describes the relationship between frequency, amplitude, and intensity. If you recall from the simple harmonic motion of springs, the total energy of the system is 12 time the spring constant time the square of the amplitude. In addition, the frequency of a spring is 1 / 2 pi square root the spring constant divided by the mass. Now we can use these equations because these equations describe simple harmonic motion which behaves like a wave. Now with the equation on the right, let's solve for K. So let's square both sides. F2 is going to be equal to 1 4 2 * K / M. So if we multiply both sides by 4^2 m we'll see that k is equal to 4^ 2 * the mass time the square of the frequency. Now let's replace k with this portion of the equation. So therefore we could say that E is equal to 12 * 4^ 2 * M * F^ 2 * A 2. Now we know that power is energy / time. But actually before we use that let's talk about the mass. Mass is equal to density time volume because density is mass divided by the volume. Now let's draw a rectangle and let's draw just a cross-sectional area of the rectangle. This area in which the wave passes through the cross-sectional area we'll call it S. And the length of the rectangle or the height we'll call it L. The volume of this rectangle is the area time length. And we know that the distance that a wave travels is the speed multiplied by the time. So we can treat L as the distance that it travels. The length of that rectangle could equate to the distance because they're both measured in meters. So we can say that L is equal to VT. So m which is equal to density time volume. We can replace V with area time length. So the mass is the density time the cross-sectional area time the length. And then we can replace L with VT. So the mass is the density time the cross-sectional area time the speed of the wave multiplied by the time. So therefore the power of the sine wave this should be capital P is equal to the energy / the time. The energy is 12 * 4 which is 2 *^ 2 * the mass which we can replace m with uh this expression the density * the cross-sectional area time the speed multiplied by the time the square of the frequency and the square of the amplitude and we're going to divide it by t. So t cancels. So therefore the power of a soundwave is equal to this equation. Now that we have the power of the soundwave, we could come up with an equation that tells us the intensity. The intensity is equal to the power divided by the area. In this case, the area, the cross-sectional area is S. So if we divide this expression by s the intensity is simply going to be 2^ 2 * the density time the speed of the wave time square of the frequency and the square of the amplitude. So from this equation we could see that intensity is directly proportional to the square of the frequency. It's also directly proportional to the square of the amplitude. So what this means is that if we increase the frequency let's say by a factor of two because it's squared the intensity will increase by a factor of four. Now the same is true for the amplitude. If we increase the amplitude let's say by a factor of 3, 3^ 2 is 9. So the intensity will increase by a factor of 9. So we can come up with this equation. The ratio of the intensities is equal to the square of the ratios of the frequencies. So it's equal to uh f2^2 2 and f_sub_1 squ. Likewise the same is true for the amplitude. The ratio of the intensities is equal to the square of the ratio of the amplitudes. So you might be wondering what exactly is the amplitude. A sound wave is basically a pressure wave and it can displace air. If we plot the displacement of air on the y ais and time on the x- axis, we're going to get a sine wave. Let's say the displacement is zero on the x- axis. The peak of the wave might be something like 0.001 cm. It's very small. And over here it could be like.001 cm. So the amplitude a is really the displacement of the air molecules. And it's usually measured in meters though if you're going to use the equation. and you know frequenc now let's work on some problems calculate the displacement of air molecules for a sound wave having a frequency of 1500 htz at an intensity of 4.2 2 * 10 - 6 W and we're given the density of air. So we know the equation is the intensity 2^ 2 * the density time the velocity time the square of the frequency time the square of the amplitude. So we have the amplitude already that is the actually we'll look for the amplitude. The displacement of air molecules is the amplitude A. We have the frequency and we have the density and we have the intensity. So I is 4.2 * 10 - 6. That's equal to 2^ 2. The density is 1.29. That's the density of the medium in which sound travels through. In this case, air. The speed of sound in air is 343 m/s. The frequency is 1500. Now let's solve for a. 2i^ 2 * 1.29 29 * 343 * 1500^ 2 is about 1 965* 10. So let's divide both sides by that number. So 4.2 2 * 10 - 6 / 1.965 * 10 that's equal to 2.137 * 10 -6 and that's equal to a^2. So to solve for a at this point we need to take the square root of both sides. So the amplitude which is the displacement of the air molecules that's going to be about 1.4 62 * 10 - 8 m. A 2500 hertz sound wave traveling in air has a displacement amplitude of 750 nanome. The density of air is 1.29 kg per meter. What is the intensity of the soundwave? So let's make a list of what we have. So we have the frequency. It's 2500. We have the amplitude. It's 750 nanome. But to use the equation, we need to convert it to meters. 1 nanome is equal to 1 * 10 - 9 m. So the amplitude is simply 750 * 10 - 9 m. Just replace the unit nm with 10 - 9 m and you should be fine. Now we know that the density of air is 1.29 29 kg per cubic meter. And the speed of sound in air, we're going to assume at 20° C is 343 m/s. So therefore, we can use this equation to find the intensity. So it's equal to 2^ 2 time the density of air time the speed of sound time the square of the frequency time the square of the amplitude. So that's going to be 2^ 2 time p which is 1.29 29 times the speed which is 343 time the square of the frequency 2500^ 2 and the square of the amplitude 750 * 10 - 9 squared. So basically you can type this in exactly the way you see it in your calculator. So you should get 03 07 1 watts per square meter. Now that we have the intensity, we can find the answer to part B. We can calculate the intensity level. And we can do that using this equation. The intensity level in decibb is basically just 10 times the log function of the intensity divided by the reference level or the reference intensity. So all we got to do is replace I with this number. So the intensity is 03071. The reference intensity is 1 * 10 -12. Log3071 / 1 * 10 -2 is about 10.487. And if we multiply this by 10, we're going to get a sound intensity level of 104.9. dec. And that is it for this problem. Let's try this one. If the frequency of a sound wave is tripled and if the amplitude is quadrupled, by what factor will the intensity increase? So let's write the equation first. intensity is equal to 2^ 2 * the density * the velocity time the square of the frequency time the square of the amplitude. So we know that intensity is directly proportional to the square of the frequency. So that means that if we triple the frequency, if we increase it by a factor of three, the intensity will increase by a factor of 9 because 3^ 2 is 9. And if we increase the amplitude by a factor of four, the intensity should increase by a factor of 4^ 2 or 16. and 9 * 16 is 144. So the intensity should go up by a factor of 144. Another way to get the same answer is to simply plug in the numbers into the equation. Everything that is held constant, which is this portion of the equation, replace it with a 1. So it's going to be 1 * 3^ 2 because frequency was tripled * 4^ 2. So that's going to be 9 * 16 which is 144. So that's the answer to part A. The intensity increases by 144. Now what about part B? By how many dB will the intensity level increase? So let's say our reference level or our reference intensity has a value of 1 * 10 -2. The intensity increased by a factor of 144. So if we multiply 144 by 1 * 10 -2 you should get 1.44 * 10 - 10. And now let's calculate the sound level at that intensity. Keep in mind the sound level at the threshold of hearing at this reference level is equal to zero. So if we could find the sound level at this new intensity, we could see by what factor or by how many decb the intensity level increased. So let's use the equation. The sound level is going to be 10 times log of the intensity level which is 1.44 * 10 - 10 / the reference intensity which is 1 * 10 -2. If you divide these two numbers you're going to get this number 144. So log of 144 is 2.158. And if we multiply by 10, we're going to get a sound level of 21.58. So the sound level increased by 21.58 dB. That's the answer to part B. Now before we can solve problems associated with organ pipes, whether if they're closed or open, we need to review standing waves and waves on a string. So let's say if we apply a force to produce a wave on a string, we can calculate the velocity of this wave using this equation. It's equal to the square root of the tension force divided by the linear density of the string that carries the wave. M is the mass of the string. L is the length. So using that equation you could find the speed of the wave or the tension force required to produce a wave with a certain speed. Now let's say if we have a string attached to uh two ends or two fixed supports. L is the length of the string and we can apply a force to produce a standing wave. A standing wave is basically a wave that appears to stand in place. It appears not to be moving even though it is moving. Now there's different standard wave patterns that we can produce. But before we go into that, you need to know that this is one complete wave. A wave that looks like this has a length of one wavelength. So here we have two cycles. So this wave has a length that is equal to twice the wavelength of a wave. So let's say if we have one loop, this one loop corresponds to half of a wavelength, just this portion of the wave. So that loop has a length of L and it's equal to 1/2 the wavelength. Now I'm going to put a subscript of one to correspond to the fact that it only has one loop. So n is equal to one. Now let's say if there's two loops, it's going to look like this. So n is two. Notice that for two loops it's equal to one wave. That's one cycle which has a length of one wavelength. So L is equal to lambda but I'm going to write it as 2 over two. So you can see a pattern. 2 over2 is basically one. Now let's say if we have three uh loops. So L is equal to 1.5 * the wavelength or 3 / 2. So based on this pattern we can come up with an equation. We can say that L is equal to N * the wavelength with a subscript of N / 2. As you can see, this two does not change. However, the number on top changes 1 2 3. So basically, it corresponds to the number of loops which n represents the number of loops. Now, if we solve for L, I mean not L, but lambda, we're going to get this equation. If we multiply both sides by two, it's going to be 2 L. And if we divide by N, 2 L / N is equal to lambda N. So, this is another equation that you want to use whenever you have the length of the string. And if you want to find the wavelength. Now in addition to that, there's some other equations that we can get. We'll talk about them soon. But let me show you something else. Let's say if the frequency that corresponds to this particular standard wave pattern, let's say it's 100 hertz. This is known as the fundamental frequency or the first harmonic. The second harmonic or the first overtone has twice the frequency. It's 200 htz. The third harmonic is 300 htz. This is the second overtone. The fourth harmonic will be 400 htz which is the third overtone. So as n increases that is as the number of loops increases the frequency will increase but the wavelength will decrease. So let's say that at a certain length and at a certain speed, let's assume that the wavelength is 1 meter. So the wavelength for a standing wave with two loops is going to be half of a meter or.5. If there's three loops, it's going to be one over three. So notice that the wavelength is decreasing. So as you can see you can find any frequency using this equation. Fn is equal to n times the fundamental frequency. You just multiply by n. Now you can find the wavelength for any standard wave pattern if you know the wavelength of the fundamental. Instead of multiplying by n, you need to divide by n. Now let's talk about how to derive these equations. So keep in mind that lambda n we said was 2 l / n. And we know that wavelength time frequency is equal to the speed of the wave. If we solve for frequency, the frequency is going to be the speed divided by the wavelength. So the frequency for any fundamental or for I mean for any harmonic is the speed divided by the wavelength that corresponds to that particular harmonic. So I'm going to write it as fn is going to be v over 1 * 1 / lambda n. Now if lambda n is 2 ln, 1 / lambda n is the reciprocal of this fraction. So therefore we have this equation V * N / 2 L. So this gives us another useful equation. We could find the frequency of any harmonic if we know the speed and the length. It's N * V / 2 L. Now going back to this equation, lambda n is 2 L / N. So lambda 1 is simply 2 L over 1 which is 2 L which means that we can replace 2 L with lambda 1. Now I'm going to write it like this. N / 1 * V / lambda 1. Now as we said before frequency is the speed divided by lambda n. So f_sub_1 is basically v / lambda 1. So notice we have v over lambda 1. That's equal to f_sub_1. So we now have the equation fn is equal to n * f_sub_1. Now from that equation we're going to get another equation. So the wavelength times the frequency is equal to the speed. Therefore the wavelength is equal to the speed divided by the frequency. And 1 / the wavelength is the reciprocal of this fraction. It's the frequency divided by the speed. So from this equation I'm going to divide both sides by v. So fn / v is equal to n * f_sub_1 / v 1 / lambda n is equal to fn / v. So we can replace this with 1 / lambda n. So therefore we could also say that 1 / lambda 1 is equal to f_sub_1 over v. All we did is we replace n with one. So f_sub_1 over v is 1 / lambda 1. So we have 1 / lambda n is equal to n over lambda 1. Now if we take the reciprocal of both sides of the equation we get this equation lambda n is equal to lambda 1 / n. Now let's go back to our standard wave pattern. Let's say if there's three loops, you need to know the difference between nodes and anti-nodes. These are the nodes. That's where the amplitude is zero. So for three loops, notice that the number of nodes is equal to n + one. So basically we have four nodes. Now the anti-nodes is where you have maximum displacement or the amplitude is at a max. The number of anti-nodes turns out to be simply equal to the n value or the number of loops. So in this case we have three antodes. So make sure you know that too. Now sometimes you might encounter a word called octave. So let's say if you have a frequency that's 300 hertz. If you want to find a frequency that is an octave higher, I'm just going to put O with an arrow going up. So if it's one octave higher, the frequency is twice the value. You simply multiply it by two. If it's an octave lower, the frequency is half of 300. You divide it by two. So it's going to be 150. So when you hear the word octave, an octave that's higher is simply the next multiple of a number. Now we went over a lot of equations at this point. So let's write down a list of the important equations that you need to know. So the first one, you've seen this already. The speed of a wave is equal to the wavelength times the frequency. So let's say if you have the wavelength of the third harmonic, you need to use the frequency of the third harmonic in order to get the speed. So the n values have to correspond to each other. Now you can also find a speed if you know the tension force, the mass of the string and the length of the string. Keep in mind the mass per unit length ratio is known as the linear density. Now we know that the frequency of any harmonic is basically n times the fundamental frequency or the frequency of the first harmonic. And the wavelength of any harmonic is simply the wavelength of the fundamental divided by n. Now you can find the wavelength of any harmonic if you know the length of the string and also the number of loops in the standing wave pattern. And you can also find L using this equation. L is going to be the number of loops times the wavelength / 2. And finally, you can calculate the frequency if you know the number of loops and the speed and also the length of the string. So, write down these seven equations because it's going to be useful for the next few problems that you're about to solve. A tension of 300 newtons was applied to a.25 kg string that has a length of 3 m. What is the velocity of the wave produced? So, the equation that we need is this equation. First, let's calculate the linear density, which is the mass divided by the length. So, the mass of the string is 0.25 kg and it's 3 m long. So, the linear density is 083 repeating kilogram per meter. So now let's find the velocity of the wave. So it's the tension force of 300 newtons divided by the linear density. So the velocity is roughly about 60 m/s. That's how fast the wave is moving. Now, what about part B? What is the fundamental frequency? And what is the frequency of the first three overtones? That's what I meant to say. Now, the equation that we can use to find the fundamental frequency is this equation. FN is equal to NV / 2 L. Keep in mind for the fundamental frequency N is 1. So we're looking for F sub1 where we have one loop in the standard wave uh pattern. So we have the speed which is 60 m/s and we know the length of the string which is 3 m. 2 * 3 is 6. 60 / 6 is 10. So the fundamental frequency is 10 herz. Now that we have the fundamental frequency, we can use this equation to find the first three overtones. The first overtone is basically the second harmonic, which is 2 * the fundamental. So it's going to be 20 Hz. The second overtone, which is the third harmonic, is 10 * 3. That's going to be 30 Hz. And the third overtone, which is the fourth harmonic, is 10 * 4, which is 40 Hz. So that's all you got to do for part B. Now, what about part C? What is the wavelength of the second overtone? Now, there's many different ways in which we could find this answer. The second overtone corresponds to the third harmonic. The frequency of the third harmonic we set is 30 Hz. So first we can use this equation. The speed is equal to the wavelength time the frequency. So the speed is equal to the wavelength that corresponds to the third harmonic time the frequency of the third harmonic. So 60 is equal to lambda 3 times the frequency of 30. So the wavelength for the third harmonic or the second overtone is 60 / 30 which is 2 m. Now let's see if we can confirm that answer with another equation. The other equation that we could use is this one. Lambda n is equal to 2 l / n. So lambda 3 is simply 2 * the length which is 3 m. L is three and n is basically the subscript value which is three. So we can cancel the threes and we get an answer of two. So as you can see there's multiple ways in which you can get the right answer. So make sure you know the equations and how to use them. Try this problem. The frequency of the fourth harmonic is 100 hertz. What is the frequency of the 11th harmonic? So we know that f_sub_4 is equal to 100 and our goal is to find the value of f11. So first let's calculate the fundamental using the equation fn is equal to n * f_sub_1. So f_sub_4 is 4 * the value of f_sub_1. So if f4 is 100 that means that the fundamental frequency is 100 / 4 which is 25 htz. So now that we have the fundamental frequency we can find the 11th harmonic using this equation again. So f11 is simply 11 times the fundamental. So it's 11 * 25. So what is the value of 11 quarters? 11 quarters is $2.75. So 11 * 25 is 275. So this is the frequency of the 11th harmonic. Let's try this one. How many nodes and anti-nodes are present in a standing wave with five loops? So let's draw a picture first. So here we have five loops. The number of nodes is equal to n + one. So notice that we have six nodes. 5 + 1 is 6. The number of anti-nodes is always equal to the number of loops which is five. So the number of anti-nodes is always equal to n. And that's all you got to do for this question. In this problem, we're given the frequency of the C note, which is 262 Hz, and we want to find a frequency that is one octave higher than this number. To do that, simply multiply by 2. 262 * 2 is 524 hertz. So, this is the answer to the question. Now if we want to find another frequency that's one octave higher than 524 multiply by two again and this will be48. So this number is 2 octaves higher than 262. If we want to get a number that's one octave lower than 262 divide by 2. So this is going to be 131. But the answer to this problem is 524. The fundamental wavelength of a standin wave on a.35 kg string is.5 m. What is the wavelength that corresponds to the first two overtones? So we have lambda 1 which is.5 m. The first overtone is basically the second harmonic. So we got to find lambda 2. So let's use the equation lambda 1 / n. So this is going to be 0.5 / 2 which is 25 m. So that's the wavelength that corresponds to the first overtone. The wavelength that corresponds to the second overtone which is the third harmonic is lambda 1 / 3. So that's 50 m / 3. So this is going to be 167 m. So now that we have that value, what about part B? How can we find the length of the string? What equation can we use? The equation that we need is this one. L is equal to N * lambda N / 2. So let's use the fundamental wavelength lambda 1 which means n is 1. So it's 1 *.5 / 2 which is 0.25 m. So that is the length of the string. Now what about part C? What tension force is required or necessary to produce a wave with a speed of 50 m/s? So let's start with this equation, but let's rearrange it to calculate the tension force. So let's square both sides. V ^2 is equal to F / M / L. Now I'm going to multiply the top and the bottom fraction by L so that these cancel. And so we can see that V ^2 is equal to F * L / M. Next I'm going to multiply both sides by M. So F * L is equal to MV ^2. Now to get F by itself, I'm going to divide by L. So the tension force is the linear density* V ^ 2. So now let's plug in what we have into the formula. So the tension force is equal to the mass which is.35 kg / the length of the string which is 0.25 m times the square of the speed which is 50 m/s. So 35 /25 is 75 which is 1.4 4 * 50^ 2 and that's going to be 3500. So the tension force is 3500 newtons. Now what is the frequency of the third harmonic? What different ways can we use to find it? So keep in mind the wavelength of the third harmonic is.5 / 3 which we said is about.167 m. So to find the frequency we can use this equation v is equal to lambda 3 * f3. So the speed is 50 lambda 3 is.167. So f3 is going to be 50 /.167 which is approximately about 299.4. Now this of course is a rounded answer. So if we type in 50 /.166667 because it's really.16 repeating it's really about 299.99. So we can say that it's really supposed to be 300. That's the exact answer. Now what other equation can we use to calculate the frequency of the third harmonic? What would you say? The other equation that we can use is this one. F3 is going to be N which is 3 * the speed which is 50 / 2 L and L is 0.25. 50 * 3 is 150. 2 * 0.25 is.5. 150 divided by.5 is 300. The wavelength of the third harmonic is 6 m. What is the wavelength of the sixth harmonic? So we know that lambda 3 is 6 m. What is lambda 6? So the equation that we need is this one. First we need to find the fundamental wavelength. So if we multiply both sides by n, lambda 1 is equal to n * lambda n. So lambda 1 is basically 3 * lambda 3. So that's 3 * 6 which is 1.8 m. So the fundamental wavelength is 1.8 m. Now that we have that, we can find lambda 6 using this equation. So lambda 6 is going to be lambda 1 / 6, which is 1.8 m over 6. If 18 / 6 is 3, 1.8 / 6 is.3. So the final answer is.3 m. The wavelength of the third harmonic is 1.5 m. So lambda 3 is this number. And we have the frequency of the fifth harmonic which is uh 200 hertz. What is the speed of the wave? At this point we cannot use this equation lambda f is equal to v because the subscripts do not match. So what should we do in this case? How can we solve this problem? The best thing to do is to find the fundamental wavelength and frequency. We know that fn is equal to n * f_sub_1. So f5 is equal to 5 * f_sub_1. f5 is 200 and f_sub_1 is 200 / 5 which is 40 htz. Now we know that lambda n is equal to lambda 1 / n which means lambda n * n is equal to lambda 1 if you multiply both sides by n. So lambda 3 * 3 is lambda 1. So 1.5 * 3 is lambda 1 which is 4.5 m. So now that we have the wavelength and the frequency that corresponds to the same subscript, we can now find the speed. So we just got to multiply these two values. So 4.5 * 40 is going to give us the speed. And that's going to be 180 m/s. Now, let's talk about pipe organs when they're open at both ends and when they're closed at one end. But let's talk about how the shape looks like if it's open at both ends. So we're going to have one node to correspond to the fundamental frequency. And the standing wave pattern looks like this. This is equal to a standing wave pattern with one loop. Notice that this is the left side portion of the loop on the right and this is the right side portion. So since we have one loop and is equal to one. Therefore the length is equal to 1/2 of the wavelength. Keep in mind a wavelength is the length of two loops. Since we have one loop, the length is half of the wavelength. Now, what about if we have two nodes? How is it going to look like? It looks like that. Now, how many loops do we have in this picture? So, notice that here we have half a loop, we have a full loop, and another half. So, we have a total of two loops. So, we're going to say n is basically two. So the length is going to be equal to the wavelength. 2 over two is one. Now let's see how it's going to look like if we have three nodes. So this time n is three and l is 3 over2 * the wavelength. This is lambda 1, lambda 2, lambda 3. So this is the fundamental wave or the first harmonic. This is the second harmonic which is the first overtone. This is the third harmonic which is the second overtone. So we can write a general equation for L just like we did before for the standing waves. We can say that L is N * the wavelength / 2. And if we want to solve for the wavelength, it's going to be 2 L / N. And the frequency FN is going to be NV over 2L. So for a pipe that's open at both ends, the equations that we've used for standard wave patterns applies to this as well. N could be anything. It could be 1 2 3 4 and so forth. Now the other equations still apply. For example, f(n) is still n * f_sub_1 and lambda n is still lambda 1 / n. Now, keep in mind that these waves that you see here for an open organ pipe, the waves that you see represent the displacement of air at the open end. Notice that we always have an anti-ode. The reason for that is because air is free to move at the end. If we had a closed end, it would be a node at that point because air is not free to move at the closed end of a tube. So, let's go ahead and talk about an organ pipe that is closed at one end. So, for the displacement of air, we are always going to have a node at the close end. So this is going to look something like this. So notice that this is not even a full loop. This is half of a loop. Keep in mind two loops is equal to one wavelength. So half a loop is 1/2 of a wavelength. Therefore what we have is a quarter of a loop. And keep in mind this picture represents the length of the pipe which is L. So we can say that L is 1/4 the wavelength. So we always have an a node at the close end and for the displacement of air we always have an anti-node at the open end since air can move freely at that point. Just keep those things in mind. So now let's draw the next overtone. So this time we're going to have two nodes. So at the open side it's going to be an anti-node and at the closed side we're going to have a node. So it looks like this. So this is one loop. That's half a loop. So we have 1.5 loops. 1 + 1/2 is 3 over2 as a fraction. So what is the the length of this particular picture? So we said that one loop is half a wavelength and half a loop is 1/4 of a wavelength. 12 + 1/4 is 3 over4. Now something that you need to be careful with is that the n value here is one but for this one it's not two, it's three. So this is the first harmonic. This is the third harmonic. There's no second harmonic or fourth hormonic when it's closed at 1 n. N can't be 2, four or six. n can only be odd numbers like 1, three, five, and seven. So keep that in mind when you're dealing with the closed end organ pipe. So now let's draw the next one. So the next one is going to have three nodes and we're still going to have an anti-node at the end. So it's going to look like that. Keep in mind each loop represents 1/2 of a wavelength. So this is half of a wavelength plus another half of a wavelength plus 1/4 of a wavelength. 0.5 +.5 is 1 and 1/2 is 0.25. 1.25 as a fraction is 5 over 4. basically multiply the top and bottom by four and you'll get 5 over 4. So therefore we could say that the length is equal to 54s of the wavelength. And for this picture n is equal to 5. Now given these three equations that we have here, how can we write a general equation that describes L in terms of the wavelength? So notice that L doesn't change. The lambda symbol doesn't change and the four on the bottom doesn't change. The only numbers that are changing is the numerator and the subscript. So we can replace that with n. Therefore the general equation is this. L is equal to n * lambda subn / 4. So that's whenever you have an organ pipe that is closed at one end such as a clarinet. The flute would be considered an open pipe or an open tube. Now if we're solving for lambda, it's going to be 4 L / N. So that's another equation that you want to know. Now what about the frequency? Lambda * the frequency is equal to the speed. and lambda is 4 L / N. So solving for F, we can say F subn is the velocity * N / 4 * the length. So that's how you can find the frequency for any uh harmonic. Now the other equations still apply. f_sub_n is still n * f_sub_1 and lambda n is still lambda 1 / n. Now I want to talk about the pictures or the wave patterns for the displacement of air and compare it to the pressure of air. So first let's go over the the open tube. So for the displacement of air where we had only one node, we said the picture looked like this. As you can see, there's an anti-node at the end. So I'm going to write a n for anti-node and there's a node in the middle. Now, if you're dealing with the pressure of air for an open tube, it looks like this. Notice that the node is at the open end and the anti-node is inside. It's different. The reason why we have an anti-node outside for the displacement of air is because air can move freely there. Whereas in the case of pressure, the reason why we have an a node is because it's open to the atmosphere. It doesn't alternate there. But on the inside, it can the pressure can alternate. Now, what if we have a a closed tube? one that's closed on one side. Now, for the displacement of air, we drew the picture. We said that there's a node on the closed end and an anti-node on the open end. And so, they look like this. So, here's the node and here is the anti-node. So for the displacement of air, it's free to move at the open side. So we have an anti-node. But air is not it doesn't move freely at the closed end. So we have a node. In the case of pressure, the opposite is true. We're going to have a node on the outside and an anti-node at the close end. So at the close end the pressure can oscillate and that's why we have an antiode. It can oscillate above and below the atmospheric pressure. Now what about the next harmonic or the next overtone? Let's draw it for an open tube. And then we'll draw it for a closed tube or two that's closed at one end. So this time we're going to have two nodes and we've seen this picture. So for the displacement of air, keep in mind we're always going to have an antiode whenever the tube is open. Let's do that again. So it looks something like that. Now what about for pressure? So, we're going to have a node at the end, but this time we're going to have three nodes instead of two. We need to have a total of two loops. So, it looks like this. Keep in mind this is half a loop, one loop, and a half. Here we have one and one, which is two loops total. Now, for the closed tube, we can't really do a second harmonic because the n values have to be odd. So, we're going to have to draw the picture for the third harmonic. Now, for the displacement of air, there's going to be two nodes. So, it's going to look like this. So that's for the third harmonic where N is three. For this one, N is two when it's open. Now, what about for the pressure? So, we're going to have a node at the end and an anti-node at the close end, but a a node at the open end. So, it's going to look like this. In both cases, we have 1.5 loops, one and a half and one and a half. So, the number of loops should still be the same. But for pressure, you always have a node at the open end and an anti-node at the close end. For the displacement of air, you always have an anti-node at the open end and a node at the close end. So let's start with this problem. We're looking for the fundamental frequency and the first two overtones. We're given the length of the pipe. So L is 1.3 m. And we're dealing with a pipe that's open at both ends. So what equation can we use to find the fundamental frequency? The equation that you want to use is this one. frequency is equal to n * the speed of sound / 2 l. So the first harmonic is going to be 1 * 343 / 2 * 1.3. So it's 343 / 2.6. And so the frequency is going to be I'm going to round it to the nearest whole number. So it's about 132 hertz. It's really 131.9. Now what about the second harmonic? So we can use the equation fn is equal to n * f1. So it's simply going to be 2 * 132 which is 264 hertz. The second harmonic is the first overtone. The third harmonic is the second overtone. So that's going to be 3 * 132 which is about 396 hertz. Now what if the pipe is closed at 1 n? What is the equation to find the fundamental frequency? If it's closed at one end, you want to use this equation. f(n) is equal to n * v / 4 l. Now keep in mind if it's closed at 1 n, we can only use odd numbers for n, no even numbers. So the fundamental frequency is f1. That's going to be 1 * the speed / 4 l or 4 * 1.3. 4 * 1.3 is about 5.2. And 343 divided by 5.2 is about 65.96 which I'm going to round and say is 66 hertz. So the first overtone is the third harmonic. So be careful with that. So it's 3 * 66 which is about 198 hertz. Now the second overtone is the fifth harmonic. So that's 5 * 66 which is 330. What is the length of a closed organ pipe that emits a fundamental frequency of 262 hertz at 20°? So we're looking for L. We have the fundamental frequency F1 which is 262 and at this frequency N is 1. And we know the speed of sound is 343. So once again we can use this equation NV over 4 L not 2 L because we have a closed organ pipe. So to solve for L, it's going to be NV / 4 * the frequency. So N is 1. V is 343 and F is 262. 4 * 262 is,48. 343 / 1048 is about 327 m. So that's how long the closed organ pipe should be. So let's try this one. The length of the flute is 79 cm, which if we convert it to meters, we need to divide by 100. That's 79 m. By the way, for each of these um problems, feel free to pause it as soon as I start it so you can get a chance to try it yourself. What is the fundamental frequency at 20°? So, a flute, is it considered to be an open tube or a closed tube? For the most part, a flute is an open tube. So, the equation that we want to use is this one. It's NV / 2. So, we're looking for the fundamental frequency. N is 1. And at 20°, the speed of sound is 343. / 2. So 2 * 79 that's 1.58. 343 / 1.58 is equal to 217.1. So that's the fundamental frequency for part A. Now what about part B? What if the temperature is decreased to 5°C? So what would be the fundamental frequency of this cold flute? So the speed is going to change. The speed is dependent on the temperature. As mentioned before the speed is 331 + 6 * t. So 331 + 6 * 5. That's about 334 m/s. So now let's calculate the fundamental frequency using this equation again. So it's going to be n which is 1 * the new speed of 334 / 2 L. So it's 334 / 1.58 and that's about 211.4 hertz. So notice that as you decrease the temperature the speed decreases and as a result the fundamental frequency of this musical instrument decreases as well. Likewise if you increase the temperature the speed of sound will increase and the frequency will increase. So, at high temperatures, the flute is going to emit a higher pitch or higher frequency. At low temperatures, it's going to emit a low pitch or a lower frequency. Now, let's talk about this equation. Notice that V and F are directly related since V is on top. So if you increase the speed of sound, the frequency will increase. The sound is going to have a higher pitch. It's going to sound more squeaky, so to speak. Now, what about the length? Notice that the frequency is inversely related to the length of the instrument. If you increase the length, the frequency will decrease, and so it's going to have more bass. It's going to have a lower pitch. If you decrease the length, then you can increase the frequency giving it a higher pitch. So now let's answer part C. What is the fundamental frequency at 20° C if the flute was filled with helium? So what is the speed of sound in helium? In helium, it's about a,000 meters/ second, but it's really a,0005. You can round it to a,000 if you want. L is about it's still 79. So 1,05 / 1.58 is about 636 hertz. So that is the fundamental frequency. Now let's make sense of this number because it's much higher than the answers in part A and B. And we can see why the speed of sound in helium is much higher than the speed of sound in air. So the frequency is significantly higher. And it makes sense because have you ever seen someone breathe in helium? How does their voice sound? Typically, they have a higher pitch. Their voice sounds more squeaky, kind of like a chipmunk. And the reason for that is because sound travels much faster in helium than it does in air because helium is a lot lighter than air. And so they typically would have a higher pitch or more squeaky voice whenever someone breathes in helium. A 1.36 meter tube is open at both ends and resonates two successive harmonics of 375 and 500. What is the speed of sound in this tube? Now we know that we can use this equation. The tube is open. So it's going to be NV over 2L and not 4 L. So if we know the fundamental frequency, we could find the speed. So what is the fundamental frequency? Now let's assume that the fundamental frequency is 70. The second harmonic is 140. It's 70 * 2. The third harmonic is 3 * 70, which is 210. The fourth harmonic is 280. Notice that the difference is always 70. If you subtract f_sub_2 by f_sub_1, it's 70. F_sub_3 by F_sub_2 210 - 140 is 70. f_sub_4 - f_sub_3 is 70 as well. So the difference between any successive harmonics will always give you the fundamental frequency. Therefore we could say f1 is 500us 375. So the fundamental frequency is 125 htz which means that the 375 is the third harmonic because 375 / 125 is three. The 500 frequency or the one at 500 htz that's the fourth harmonic because 500 divided 4 is 125. So now that we have the fundamental, what's the speed? To calculate n, if you want to rearrange the equation, it's going to be 2 L time the frequency / N. That's going to be V. So it's 2 * the length of the tube, which is 1.36, time the fundamental frequency, which is 125, and n is one. So the speed of sound is 340 m/s. So that's the answer to part A. Now that we have that information, we can answer part B. What is the temperature of the air? We know the speed of sound is equal to 331 + 6 * t. So 340 is equal to 331 + 6 * t. If we subtract both sides by 331, 340 - 331 is 9. And 9 /6 is 15. So it's 15°. An air pipe can produce successive harmonics at 252 and 315 hertz. Is the pipe open or closed? So, how can we figure this out? The first thing we need to do is find the fundamental frequency, which is the difference between the successive harmonics. So, 315us 252 is equal to uh 63. Now keep in mind if we have an open pipe n could be anything. It could be even or odd. If we have a closed pipe n can only equal odd numbers. So let's find out the n value for the harmonic at 252. So take that frequency divided by the fundamental and see what you get. 252 / 63 is 4. So that tells us that f4 is 252. That's the fourth hormonic. If we take 315 and divide it by 63, we're going to get five. Because we have an even value, that tells us that the pipe is closed at 1 n. I mean, not take it back. I meant to say it's open at both ends because it's even. We have an open pipe, not a closed pipe. So now that we know the pipe is open and not closed, how long is the pipe? So now we can choose which equation to use. So we need to use this one. NV over 2L since the pipe is open. So F1 is 63. N is 1. V is 343 at 20° C. And we're looking for L. So 343 / 2 * 63 will give us the value of L. 2 * 63 is 126. 343 / 126 is about 2.72. So that's how long the pipe is. A 1.15 meter pipe in air can resonate at 222, 370, and 518, but not any other frequencies between 222 and 518. What is the fundamental frequency? If the pipe is an open pipe, then 222 and 370 are successive harmonics. The fundamental frequency will be the difference between the two. If it's a closed pipe, that means that the successive overtones differ by two harmonics, which means that the fundamental frequency will be the difference between the two numbers divided by two. So let's see if the fundamental frequency is simply 370 - 222 or if it's 370 - 222 / 2. 370 - 222 is 148. By the way, if you take 518us 370, it's also 148. Now, half of 148 is 74. So, notice that 222 is not a multiple of 148. 222 / 148 doesn't give you a whole number. It's 1.5, which means that 148 is not the fundamental frequency. 222 / 74 is a whole number. It's three. 370 / 74 is also a whole number. That's five. and 518 / 74 is 7. So that tells us that the fundamental frequency is 74 and that we have a closed pipe because the n values are all odd. None of them are even. So now that we know we have a closed pipe, we can use this equation to calculate the speed. So solving for V, it's going to be 4 L * the frequency / N. So let's use the fundamental frequency of 74. So it's 4 * the length of the pipe which is 1.15 m times the fundamental frequency which n is 1 in that case. So if we multiply these three numbers we should get 340.4 m/s. So that's the speed of sound in this pipe. What is the fundamental wavelength of a 65 m closed organ pipe and the wavelength of its first two overtones? So since the pipe is closed, we can use this equation lambda n is equal to 4 L / N. So lambda 1 the fundamental wavelength is four times the length of the pipe / 1. So it's four * 65 which is 2.6 m. Now because the pipe is closed the n values can only be odd numbers 1 3 5 and 7. So to find the next overtone we need to plug in three. And we can use the equation lambda n is simply lambda 1 / n. So it's going to be 2.6 / 3 and that's 867 m. Now to find the second overtone which is the fifth harmonic it's 2.6 6 / 5 and that's about.52 m. Now what about the second part of the problem? How long should the closed organ pipe be to produce a fundamental wavelength of 1.35 m? So let's use this equation if we're looking for the length of the pipe. So the fundamental wavelength where the n value is one, the wavelength is 1.35 and then we just got to divide it by 4. So the pipe should be 3375 m long. A 1.5 m open organ pipe produces a fundamental frequency of 114 hertz. If the length of this pipe was decreased to 1 meter, what fundamental frequency will it produce? So for an open organ pipe, we know the fundamental frequency is NV / 2 L. So because L is in the bottom of the equation, L and the frequency are inversely related. If you increase L, the frequency will decrease. F is inversely related to L. So if you double the length of the organ pipe, the frequency will be half of its original value. If you decrease L, F will increase. Since we decreased it to one, we should expect a frequency that's higher than 114. So let's come up with an equation that relates F and L together. f_sub_2 / f_sub_1 where f_sub_2 is not the second harmonic but just a different fundamental frequency. This is going to be nv / 2 l2 / nv / 2 l1. Sov are the same since we're dealing with the fundamental frequency. We can cancel two. So we could say that f_sub_2 over f_sub_1 is 1 / l2 / 1 / l1. If you multiply top and bottom by l1, you're going to get this equation. f_sub_2 over f_sub_1 is equal to l1 / l2. The fact that the subscripts are opposite to each other shows the inverse relationship. So that's the equation that relates two frequencies to two different L values. So f_sub_1 is 114. We're looking for the new fundamental frequency. L1 is 1.5 m. L2 is 1.0 m. So if we cross multiply 114 * 1.5 is about 171 hertz and that's equal to 1 * f_sub_2 which is simply f_sub_2. So as you can see if you decrease l the frequency increases. So now what about the second problem? How long should the pipe be to produce a fundamental frequency of 80? So we're going to say f_sub_1 is 114, f_sub_2 is 80. L1 is 1.5. We're looking for the new L value. So f_sub_2 over f_sub_1, that's 80 over 114. L1 over L2, it's 1.5 over L2. Now let's cross multiply. So we have 80 * L2 and that's equal to 114 * 1.5, which is 171. So L2 is 171 / 80 and that's about 2.14 m. So notice that we decrease the frequency from 114 to 80. So the L value should increase and it did from 1.5 to 2.14. The next thing we need to talk about is interference and the principle of superposition. Waves are additive. Let's say if we have a wave that looks like this and it has an amplitude of one. And let's say there's another wave that's in phase with the first one, but has a larger amplitude of two. Because these two are in phase, they will add together to form a bigger wave with an amplitude of three. This is known as constructive interference. whenever two waves combine to form a larger wave. And it occurs anytime when they're in phase. But what about when they're out of phase? So let's say if the first wave is the same, it has an amplitude of one. And let's say the second wave is out of phase with the first one. But let's say that it has an amplitude of -2. According to the principle of superposition, these two waves will add. And so 1 + -2 is negative 1. So destructive interference occurs at this point because the amplitude is less than what it was here. Whenever two waves either weaken their amplitudes or if they cancel out, if they're out of phase, destructive interference occurs. Now, let's say if the second wave had the exact same amplitude but in the opposite direction, then these two waves will completely cancel out and so the sum would be zero. So, we would have nothing. That's another example of destructive interference. Now, for destructive interference to occur, the distance between two waves must differ by half a wavelength. It could be one half a wavelength. It can be uh 1.5 or 2.5, but they must differ by 1/2 of a wavelength. So if you want a general equation, it's like n + 12 times a wavelength where n is an integer such as 0 plus or -1 plus or -2 and so forth. Now for constructive interference to occur, the distance between two waves must either be equal or differ by a wavelength. They could differ by one wavelength, by two wavelengths or by n wavelengths where n is 0 plus or - 1 plus or - 2 and so forth. Now let's say if we have two speakers that emits a soundwave and we have a person standing at this position. Let's call this speaker A and speaker B. Let's say that the distance between speaker A and B is about 3 mters. And these two speakers, let's say that they emit a sound with a frequency of 1,400 htz. Actually, let's say it's less. Let's say it's 500 htz. And that's both speakers. Speakers A and B. They emit the same sound. Now, how far away should this person be from speaker B in order for destructive interference to occur? Now, there's many values, but what are some values in which he has to be from speaker B in order for destructive interference to occur? What would you say? How would you begin? Now, the first thing you need to do is to find the wavelength. and we're going to use a speed of 343 m/s. So let's use the equation wavelength time frequency is equal to the speed. So the wavelength is the speed divided by the frequency. So it's 343 m/s divided by 500. And that's about 686 mters. So let's say if this is not drawn a scale, if the distance between speaker B and a person, let's call it point C, if it's half of this number plus three, destructive interference will occur. So 1/2 of a wavelength which is 686 / 2 that's 343. If it differs by this number relative to three destructive inference will occur. So let's say if it's 3.343 m this person won't hear anything. The two waves produced by speaker A and B will cancel. Now let's say if it was 3 minus.343 let's say if it's 2 657. Now based on a picture the way it looks like it should be more because this distance is clearly greater than three. But let's say if it wasn't drawn on a scale let's say if the person was over here or something then this distance could be less than three. But if it was 2.657 destructive interference will still occur. Also if it differed by 1.5 of a wavelength destructive interference will occur as well. So if we multiply 686 * 1.5 we would get 1.029 m. So if you add three to it destructive interference will occur at 4.029 29 m or if you take away that number from three 3 - 1.029 that's 1.971 m destructive interference will occur at that point 2. So go ahead and try this problem. So, we have two speakers and this time we're going to put the person in the middle. So, the person stands 5 m away from one of the speakers. Let's say it's this one. And what is the nearest distance or the distance nearest to five that the person must stand from the other speaker in order for constructive interference to occur? Well, the first thing we need to do is find the wavelength. So the wavelength times the frequency is equal to the speed. So lambda is going to be the speed divided by the frequency. So this time it's relatively small since we have a higher frequency. 343 divided by 1500 is about 229 m. Now the next thing you want to do is find out how much half of a wavelength is. This is for part B, by the way. So half of 229 is about.145, but I'm going to round it and say 0.15. Now for constructive interference to occur it has to differ by at least one wavelength. Now we want the distance nearest to five. So we don't want to use two or three wavelengths even though constructive interference can occur at those points but we want the closest distance to five. So for part a all you got to do is add and subtract a wavelength from five. So one answer is 5.229. The other answer is 5 minus229 which is 4.771 m. So that's how far the person should be from uh the second speaker in order for constructive interference to occur. Now for destructive interference to occur the distance have to differ by half a wavelength. So it's going to be 5 plus or minus.15. So if we add the two numbers it's going to be 5.115 m. And if we subtract them it's going to be 4.885. If we have two sources of sound where the frequency of the first sound is very close to the frequency of the second sound then a beat frequency will be produced. So let's say if we have a frequency of 300 htz and 305 a beat frequency of five hertz will be heard. What happens is in the time of 1 second these two sound waves will produce five points of constructive interference and those five points of constructive interference is the frequency or the B frequency. So if the frequency is five hertz that means that it's five cycles per 1 second. So there's five points of constructive interference that occurs in a single second. The beat frequency is simply the absolute difference between the two frequencies and it occurs whenever these two frequencies are very close in value. A tunein fork produces a frequency of 415 hertz. It generates a beat frequency of seven hertz with another sound source. What are the possible frequencies generated by the sound source? So the beat frequency is the difference between the tune and fork frequency and the frequency of the other sound source. So therefore the other sound source must be seven hertz away from 415. So there's two things we can do. We can add seven or we can subtract seven. So one possible frequency is 422 hertz and the other possible frequency is 48 hertz. So the sound source has to have one of these two frequencies. A speaker produces a beat frequency of 6 hertz with a 336Hz tuned fork and a beat frequency of 8 hertz with a 350 Hz tuning fork. What is the frequency emitted by the speaker? So go ahead, take a minute and work on this example. So let's start with the 336 hertz tuning fork. So it produces a beat frequency of six hertz with the speaker. So that means we need to subtract six and add six. 336 - 6 is 330. And 336 + 6 is 342. Now let's do the same with the other tuning fork which has is calibrated for a frequency of 350 htz. It produces a beat frequency of 8 hertz with the speaker. So if we add 8, this is going to be 358. And if we subtract 8, 350us 8 is 342. So therefore, the number that agrees with both tuning forks is the right answer. So the speaker produces a frequency of 342. Perhaps you've noticed that as the siren of an ambulance truck as it approaches you, it has a higher pitch, meaning a higher frequency. And as it moves away from you, the pitch sounds lower. It has like a lower frequency. This change in frequency that is detected by the observer or the listener is known as the Doppler effect. The frequency of the source remains the same. However, the frequency that you detect sounds different than the frequency of the source. And that shift in frequency due to motion is the Doppler effect. So why is it that when the source let's call it S moves towards you, the frequency that you hear is higher than that of the source. And as the source moves away from this person, the frequency that this person hears is lower than the frequency of the source. Why is that? Well, let's call this person John. Let's give him a name. And let's say that this person on the left, let's call her Sally. Now, when a source is at rest, John and Sally will hear the same frequency. Let's say the frequency is about 1,000 hertz. The distance between each circle represents the wavelength. So when a source is not moving, notice that the circles are evenly apart. So John and Sally will hear the same frequency. But now let's say the source is moving to the right. How would that affect the waves? The waves are going to look like this. On the right side, the waves are going to be close to each other. On the left side, it's going to be further apart. My circles aren't perfect, but the idea is that as the source moves towards the right, notice that the wavelength, the distance between the wave crest is decreasing. It's less than what it is on the left side. And as the wavelength decreases, the frequency increases. The reason why the wavelength is decreasing is because think of the distance between the source and John. As the source moves towards John, the distance between them, will it is it increasing or decreasing? Notice that the distance between the source and John is decreasing as the source moves towards John. And therefore, if the distance decreases, the wavelength will decrease because they both share the same unit meters. Now the distance between Sally and the source is increasing because the source is moving away from Sally. So because the distance between uh Sally and the source increases the wavelength will increase and you can see that the distance between wave crests are much higher than the wave crest than the distance between the wave crests on the right side. So as the wavelength goes up the frequency goes down. So if the source moves towards an object or if the object moves towards the source the frequency will increase. If the source moves away from an object or from the listener or if the listener moves away from the source the frequency will decrease. So anytime the distance between the source and the observer if it's decreasing the frequency will go up. If the distance between the source and observer is increasing then the frequency will go down. So what equation can help us to quantify the frequency that the observer detects compared to the frequency that the source emits. The equation that you need is this one. FO is the frequency detected by the observer. FS is the frequency emitted by the source. And it's going to be V plus or minus VO / V - plus V S. So V is the speed of sound which is 343 m/s at a temperature of 20°. VO is the speed of the observer and VS is the speed of the source. Now the upper signs colored in red. Those signs apply if the source moves towards the observer or if the observer moves towards the source. The lower signs apply if they're moving apart. So if they move toward each other, the frequency will go up. Use the upper signs. If they move away, the frequency will go down. Now, me personally, I prefer to understand more and memorize less, and that technique usually works out. So let's say if you don't remember the signs, how can you tell if it's going to be positive or negative? We'll first need to understand fractions. Whenever you increase the value of the numerator, the value of the entire fraction goes up. If you decrease the value of the numerator, the value of the fraction goes down. Now, for the denominator, it's the opposite. If you increase the value of the denominator or the bottom part of the fraction, the value of the entire fraction goes down. If you decrease the value of the denominator, the value of the entire fraction will go up. So let's perform a brief exercise. Let's talk about what signs to use for different situations. So let's say if the source moves towards the observer and the observer is stationary, the observer is not moving. If the observer is not moving, then V 0 is zero. So that means that we don't have to worry about the signs on top. It's just going to be V on top. But the source is moving. So we do have a value for VS. If the source moves towards the observer, should we use a minus sign or a plus sign on the bottom? Now let's think about it. We know that if the source moves towards the observer, the distance between the source and the observer is decreasing, which means that the wavelength is decreasing and frequency is inversely related to the wavelength. So the frequency should go up. That means that the frequency of the observer should be less than the frequency emitted by the source. I mean should be more not not less. The frequency detected by the observer should be higher than the frequency emitted by the source because we have an arrow going up. So since the frequency should be higher, should we increase the denominator or decrease it? Keep in mind VO is zero. So we don't have to look at the numerator. We just got to focus on the denominator. As you mentioned before, whenever you increase the denominator of a fraction, the value of the fraction goes down. So we don't want that. We want the value of the fraction to go up because the frequency is increasing. So therefore, the value of the denominator must go down in order for the frequency to go up. So therefore in order to decrease the value of the denominator we have to use a negative sign because if we do V minus VS the value of the denominator will be less than V and so the frequency will go up. And that's how you can tell which sign to use by determining what effect this situation will have on the frequency if it's going to increase or decrease. And then you could choose the appropriate sign. Let's try another example. So let's say if let's say if the source is moving away from the observer, what's going to happen? So once again, we don't need VO, the observer is at rest. So we need to focus on the denominator. So if the source moves away from the person, the distance between the source and a person increases, which means that the wavelength increases and therefore the frequency will decrease. So the frequency detected by the observer should be less than the frequency emitted by the source. Now we're focused on the denominator. So if we want the frequency to decrease, we want the whole the value of the whole fraction to go down. Which means that we want the value of the denominator to go up. The value of the fraction and the denominator are inversely related. And if we want the denominator to increase, then we must choose the positive sign. So it's going to be V plus VS. Now what if the observer moves towards the source and the source is stationary. If the source is stationary, V ss is zero. Which means we don't need to worry about the signs in the denominator. We just need to focus on the numerator. So if the observer moves towards the source, what happens to the distance between the source and the observer? The distance is decreasing, which means the wavelength is decreasing and therefore the frequency is increasing. So in order to increase the frequency and therefore the value of the whole fraction, should we increase or decrease the numerator? The numerator and the value of the whole fraction are proportional. So if you increase the numerator the value of the whole fraction will go up and therefore the frequency detected by the observer will be higher than the frequency emitted by the source. And to increase the value of the numerator we have to choose the positive sign. And so we'll use a plus instead of a minus. So as you can see anytime the observer moves towards the source or if the source moves towards the observer use the upper signs. So hopefully this makes sense and uh let's work on some problems at this point. The siren of an ambulance truck emits a frequency of 1500 hertz. What frequency will a stationary observer hear if the ambulance truck moves 30 m/s toward the observer or away from the observer? So let's focus on part A. So we know that the frequency of the source is 1500 htz and the observer is stationary. So vo is zero. The ambulance truck moves at a speed of 30 m/s. So that's VS and V is simply 343. So let's write the equation. The frequency detected by the observer is equal to the frequency of the source multiplied by V plus or minus VO / V - plus VS. So VO is zero, which means we don't need to worry about the signs on top. The source is moving. So we need to find out if we're going to use a negative sign or a positive sign. So if the siren I mean if the truck moves towards the observer we know the distance is decreasing which means the wavelength is decreasing and therefore the frequency should increase. Now we're focused on the denominator of the fraction which is inversely related to the frequency. So in order for the value of the whole fraction to go up, the value of the denominator must go down and that's going to cause an increase in frequency. So therefore we want to use a negative sign and not a positive sign. So fo is equal to fs which is500 times the speed of sound which is 343 / 343 minus the speed of the ambulance truck which is 30. 343us 30 is about 313. 343 / 313 that's 1.095846* 1500 will give you a frequency of 16 43.8. So as we can see the frequency detected by the observer is higher than the frequency emitted by the ambulance truck. Now, what about part B? As the source moves away from the observer, the observer should detect a frequency that's less than 1500. So, VO is still zero. We don't need to worry about the numerator. And we know the sign has to be different. If the source moves away from the observer, here's a source. Here's the observer. And this time it's going this way. The distance between the source and the observer is increasing which means the wavelength increases and the frequency should decrease. If the frequency decreases the value of the whole fraction decreases which means that the denominator should increase in order to decrease the value of the fraction. If we want to increase the denominator we need to use the positive sign instead of the negative sign. So fo is going to equal fs time 343. That's v / v plus the speed of the source. So this time it's 1500 * 343 / 373. 343 divided by 373 is about 91957 * 1500. And this should give you a frequency of 1379.4. A stationary loudspeaker emits a frequency of 1200 htz. So this is the frequency of the source. What frequency will an observer in a jeep detect if the observer is moving at 25 m/s? So VO is 25. VS is zero because the source is stationary. And for part A, the observer is moving towards the source. So let's say this is the source and here is the observer. and he's moving this way. So if the observer moves towards the source, the distance is decreasing which means the wavelength will decrease and therefore the frequency detected by the observer should increase. It should be higher than the frequency of the source. So let's write the equation. So it's going to be V plus or minus V O / V minus plus V S. So we don't have to worry about VS. It's zero. We want the value of the frequency to increase. So we're dealing with the numerator. In order to increase the frequency, we must increase the numerator, which means that we must use the upper sign, the positive sign. So you can always use the upper signs if the distance between a source and the observer is decreasing. You can use the lower signs if the distance between the source and the observer is increasing. So this is going to be 1,200 * 343 + 25 / 343. 343 + 25 is 368 / 343. That's 1.0729* 1200. And this should give you an answer of 1287. Rounded to the nearest whole number. Now for part B, the observer is moving away from the source. So that means that the frequency is going to go down, which means that we need to decrease the numerator. So we have to use the negative sign instead of the positive sign. So everything else is going to be the same, but it's just going to be 343 minus 25 instead of 343 + 25. So 343 - 25 that's 318 / 343 that's 9271 * 1200. So this is equal to 1,100 and 12.5 hertz. So as you can see the frequency is less than 1200 since the observer is moving away from the source and when the observer is moving towards the source the frequency increased to 1287. The siren of a police car emits a frequency of 1500 hertz. So that's FS the frequency emitted by the source. Now the police car is moving at 55 m/s toward a speeding driver who is moving away from the police car at 50 m/s. What is the frequency detected by the driver? So let's draw a picture. The police car is the source. It emits the sound and the driver is the observer. Now the police car is moving towards the driver and the driver is moving away from the police car. So this time we need to use the numerator and the denominator in this problem. So let's write the equation first. FO is equal to FS * V plus or minus VO divided by V minus plus VS. So let's focus on the motion of the source. The source is moving towards the observer which means that that motion alone will cause the distance between the source and the observer to decrease which decreases the wavelength causing the frequency to increase and the source is associated with the denominator of the fraction. If we want the whole value of the fraction to increase then the denominator must decrease which means that we need to use the positive sign on the bottom because the source actually not the positive sign that will increase the denominator. We want to use the negative sign in order to decrease the denominator. So anytime the source moves towards the observer use the negative sign on the bottom. Now let's focus on the second motion that is the motion of the observer. The observer is moving away from the source which means that the observer's motion is such that it causes the distance to increase since he's moving away and that will increase the wavelength causing the frequency to decrease which means that we need to decrease the entire value of the fraction. The observer is associated with the numerator of the fraction. And in order to decrease the value of the fraction, we must decrease the numerator, which means that we should use the negative sign. So now that we know which signs to use, we can now calculate the frequency. So it's going to be 1,500 times the speed of sound, which is 343. And since the observer is moving away from the source, that's going to decrease the frequency. So we're going to put negative VO. The observer is moving at a speed of 50 m/s. And the source, the police car is trying to catch up to the driver. So the source is moving towards the observer, which means that that should cause the frequency to increase. So we have to use a negative sign on the bottom. So it's 343 minus 55. Make sure you understand this. By the way, so you can always remember this too. If the source moves towards the observer or the observer moves towards the source, use the upper sign, which we did in this example. The source moved towards the observer. If the observer moves away from the source or if the source moves away from the observer, use lower signs. We did that for the observer because the observer is moving away from the source. So that can also help you too if you prefer to view it that way. So FS is 1500 and 343US 50 is 293 and 343 - 55 is 288. Now 293 / 288 is 1.017 017 * 1500. So overall the frequency increased slightly and it makes sense why because the denominator decreased more than the numerator and when the denominator decreases the frequency should increase. The siren of an ambulance truck emits a frequency of 1700. So FS is 1700 htz. A stationary observer detects a frequency of 1825. Is the ambulance truck moving toward or away from the observer? Because the frequency detected by the observer is higher than the source. the frequency increased which means that the truck has to be moving towards the observer. If the frequency goes up that means that the wavelength decreased which means the distance is decreasing and the only way the distance could be uh decreasing is if the ambulance truck is moving towards the observer. So remember if the frequency goes up the source moves towards the observer. If the frequency goes down, the source is moving away from the observer. Now, what about part B? How fast is the ambulance truck moving? So, let's use the equation to calculate the speed. Now, the observer is not moving. The observer is stationary. So, VO is zero. So FO that's going to be 1825. FS is 1,700. V is 343 and we're looking for VS the speed of the source in this case the ambulance truck. Now because the frequency increased that means that the value of the denominator must decrease in order to increase the value of the whole fraction. So we have to use the negative sign the upper sign instead of the the lower sign. So it's going to be minus v. So let's divide both sides by 1700. 1825 / 1700 is about 1.07 353 and that's equal to 343 / 343 minus VS. So let's cross multiply. 1 * 343 is 343. 1.07353 * 343 is about 368.2208 minus 1.07353 vs. So let's subtract both sides by 368.2208 2208 343 minus that number is -25 2208 and that's equal to this. So now let's divide both sides by this number. So -25.2208 / 1.07 07 353 gives us the speed of the source which is about 23.49 m/s. A well emits a frequency of 420 hertz in the ocean. So this is the frequency of the source. An observer in a submarine moving toward the well at 15 meters per second detects a frequency of 427.33. So that's the frequency of the observer or detected by the observer and the observer is moving at a speed of 15 m/s and the whale is approaching the submarine at a speed of 12 m/s. Our goal is to find the speed of sound in seawater. So let's write the equation. FO is equal to FS * V plus or minus VO / V - plus VS. So the source is the well and the observer is in the submarine. Now the source aka the well moves towards the submarine. So that motion will increase the frequency and the source is associated with the bottom of the fraction. So if the distance decreases, the wavelength decreases, the frequency should go up, which means the value of the fraction should go up. And to do that, we have to decrease the denominator. So, we're going to use the negative sign. Now, the whale or rather the observer in the submarine is approaching the whale. It's moving towards the well. So, if the observer moves towards the well, the frequency should go up as well, which means the value of the fraction goes up. And the observer is associated with the numerator of the fraction. So, we have to increase the numerator to increase the frequency. So we need to use the positive sign. So now that we know which signs to use, let's solve it. So let's plug in everything that we have into the equation. So fo is 427.33. FS is 420. We're looking for V. That's the speed of sound in the medium. In this case, in seawater, it's going to be V plus the speed of the submarine, which is moving at 12. No, the submarine is moving at 15. And then V minus the speed of the well, which is moving at 12. So let's divide 427.33 by 420. So this is going to be 1.01 7452 and that's equal to v + 15 / v - 12. Now let's cross multiply. So 1 * v + 15 is v + 15. And this number time vus 12 is going to be 1.017452. V minus 1.017452 * 12 is about 12.209 424. This is 1 V. Let's subtract V from both sides. And at the same time, let's add 12.209424 to both sides. So 15 plus this number is going to be 27.209 424. And this number minus one is going to be 0 0174 52 * V. So now let's divide both sides by this number. 27.209 [Music] 424 / 017452 is equal to 1559. So in this particular problem, this is the speed of sound in seawater. Jared hears a frequency of 1593 hertz and Rachel detects a frequency of 1417 from a moving ambulance truck. Is the truck moving towards Rachel or Jared? What would you say? Now, whenever the source moves towards the object, the frequency goes up. And if it moves away from an observer, the frequency goes down. Because Jared hears a higher frequency than Rachel, the source is moving towards Jared. So, I'm going to put J for Jared. And Rachel must be behind the truck. The source is moving away from Rachel because she hears a lower frequency. She hears a frequency of 1417 while Jared hears a higher frequency of 1593. So the truck has to be approached in Jared. Now what is the frequency emitted by the ambulance truck and how fast is it moving? So we have two variables, the frequency and the speed. So we need two equations. So let's write an equation between the source and Jared first. FO is equal to FS time V plus or minus VO / V - plus VS. So, the speed of sound has to be 343 because they're not in the ocean and the sound is traveling through the air. The frequency that Jared hears is FO, that's 1593. We don't know the frequency emitted by the ambulance truck. So, we need to find FS. We know V is 343. Jared is stationary. He's not moving. There was no speed given to Jared or no speed mentioned of Rachel. So, we're going to assume that they're stationary. Now, we need to determine the sign in front of VS. Because the source is moving towards Jared, we know the frequency has to go up, which means the value of the denominator has to go down. So we need to use the upper sign. So it's minus VS. With this equation alone, we can't solve for two variables. Whenever you have two variables, you need two equations to solve it. So now let's move on to Rachel. Let's write an equation between ratio and the source. So fo is going to be the frequency detected by ratio. That's equal to fs * v which is 343. Now ratio is stationary. So vo is zero. Now because the source is moving away from ratio the frequency goes down which means the value of the denominator must go up. So we need to use the positive sign instead of the negative sign. So it's going to be plus vs. So now how can we solve for these two variables? What should we do? Let's isolate fs in both equations. So how can we get fs by itself? To do that first let me make some space. We no longer need this anymore. Let's multiply both sides by the reciprocal of this fraction. So let's multiply by 343 plus VS / 343. If we do that, these two will cancel and those two will cancel on the right side of the equation. So on the right side, all we have is FS. On the left side, it's uh 1417 times the numerator of this fraction, which is 343 plus VS / the denominator of the fraction. So to move this to the other side, basically just flip the fraction. So now let's do the same thing for this equation. FS is going to be 1593 times the denominator / the numerator. So I'm going to write it here. It's going to be 1593 * 343 minus VS / 343. So once again, just multiply both sides of this equation by the reciprocal of this fraction. So that's 343 minus VS / 343. So that these two will cancel and these two will cancel. And as you can see on the left side is 1593 * 343 - VS which we have here / 343. Since both of these equations are equal to FS, these two equations are equal to each other. So let's ignore FS and set those two equal to each other. So let's get rid of this. Now if we multiply both sides by 343 we could cancel the denominator. So 1417 * 343 + vs is equal to 1593 * 343 minus vs. Now let's distribute. So 1417 * 343 is 486,000 and 31. And then we have plus 1417 vs. That's equal to 1593 * 343 which is 546 399us 1593 vs. So, let's add 1593 VS to both sides and let's subtract 486,031 from both sides. 1417 + 1593 is equal to 3,10 * Vs 546,399US 48631 is equal to 60, 368. So to find VS, let's divide both sides by 310. So 60,368 / 310 gives us VS which is about 20 m/s. It's really 20.06 but we're going to round it to nurse whole number. Now FS the frequency of the source we can use this side of the equation or this side. It really doesn't matter but let's do it both ways so you can see it's the same answer. So fs is equal to 1417 * 343 + vs that's + 20 / 343. So that's 363 / 343 * 1417 which gives us a frequency of 1500 htz. Now if you use the other side of the equation you should get the same thing. So fs is equal to 1593 * 343 - 20 / 343. So 343 - 20 is 323 * 1593 / 343 and that 2 is 1500 htz. So we have the frequency of the source and how fast the ambulance truck is moving. So whenever you have two variables to solve for, you need to write two equations and then you can solve it. A stationary source emits a 4500 Hz sound wave directed at an object moving toward the source at 21 m/s. So let's say this is the source and we have an object and the object is moving towards the source at 21 m/s. What is the frequency of the reflected wave? So the source emits a sound wave. That sound wave will travel and be detected by the observer or the object and it's going to reflect back to the source. So let's focus on the sound wave traveling to the observer or to the object. FS the frequency emitted by the source is 4500 hertz. We need to find the frequency detected by the object FO. Now because the object is moving towards the source, we know the frequency should go up. So using the equation FO = FS * V plus or minus VO / V - plus VS. VS is zero because the source is stationary. So we don't need to focus on the denominator of the fraction. Now if the frequency goes up that means the value of the numerator must go up. So we need to use the positive sign. So we're looking for fo FS is 4500. The speed of sound is 343 in air. And then plus the speed of the object which is 21 / V. 343 + 21 is 364 * 4500 / 343. You should get a frequency of about 4,75.5 hertz. So that is the frequency that is detected by the object and that object is going to reflect that sound wave at the same frequency. So going backwards we can now treat the object as if it's the source and the source will be treated as the observer. So fo now becomes fs for the reflected wave. And we're looking for fo the frequency detected by the original source which is now the observer in the second part. Some books will call it FP prime and they will call this value F prime. This is the frequency detected by the observer which is the frequency of the source for the second part of the problem. So now let's rewrite the equation. FO is equal to FS V plus or minus VO / V minus plus VS. So this is the new source and we're looking for FO. So it's going to be 4775.5 time V which is 343. And this time the object is still moving towards the original source at 21 m/s. But in this problem, we're going to treat this as if it's the source for the second part. So we're going to focus on the bottom portion of the equation. And since the source is moving towards the object, the frequency should go up, which means that the denominator should go down in value to increase the frequency. So we need to use a negative value to decrease the value of the denominator. So it's going to be 343. The observer, which is the original source, is stationary. So there's no VO, but VS is 21. So this new FO will give us the frequency of the reflected wave detected by the source. 343 - 21 is 322. So 343 / 322 is 1.0652 * 4775.5. So the frequency of the reflected wave detected by the original stationary source is now 5,000 87 hertz. This is the last problem for this video. A stationary policeman uses his radar gun to direct a sound wave at 6,000 hertz on a moving vehicle. The speed limit is 40 m/s. The radar gun detects a reflected wave of 8544 hertz. Now, here's the first question. Is the driver moving toward or away from the policeman? Because the frequency of the reflected wave is higher than the original wave. The driver has to be moving toward the policeman. Whenever the distance is decreasing, the wavelength decreases, the frequency goes up. If the radar gun detected a wave that was less than 6,000, then the driver would be moving away from the policeman. But now the second part of the problem is the driver speeding. Is he going faster than the speed limit, 40 m/s? Well, let's find out. So, there's two parts to this problem. The policeman is the source and the driver is basically the observer, which I'm just going to put O for the observer. Now, the policeman sends a soundwave at 6,000 hertz. The observer detects the soundwave and then the soundwave is going to bounce back from the observer at which point the observer becomes the source remitting the soundwave and the policeman becomes the new observer detecting the sound wave. In some textbooks the original source frequency is known as f. The frequency that the observer detects is fprime. Now for the second part of the problem, the frequency that is reflected by the observer is now fs, which is also still f prime. And the frequency detected by the policeman, which he's now the observer, is fp prime. So you might see those symbols in the textbook that you're using. So you can use them if you want to. I'm going to use them. Now the observer, we don't know how fast he's moving towards the policeman. The policeman is stationary, so VS is zero. In the second part, VS is VO, so VO is zero. And VO in the first part is VS in the second part. So let's write our equation. FOA= FS or F prime= F * V plus or minus VO / V minus plus VS. So F prime is equal to the frequency of the source which is 6,000 that's F time V the speed of sound and air which is 343. Now the observer is moving towards the source. So the frequency should go up which means we need the numerator to go up. So we're going to use positive VO. VS is zero. So we don't have to worry about the bottom. So we just have V on the bottom. So this is our first equation. We have two variables. So we need to write another equation. So now let's focus on the reflected wave. So the new FO is FP prime and that's equal to FS which is F prime time 343. Now this VO now is a source VS. So we don't have a VO on top anymore for the second part. So it's zero. plus or minus Z is the same thing. Now, because the source is moving towards the observer, the frequency still has to go up because the distance between them is decreasing. And for the frequency to go up, the denominator has to decrease. So therefore, in order for the denominator to decrease, we need to use the negative sign associated with VS. So it's going to be minus VS. and FP prime is the frequency of the reflected wave which is 8544. So let's replace FP prime with that value. So now we have two equations and two variables. Keep in mind VS for the second problem is the same as VO. So we're going to replace this VS with VO because they're the same thing. So now let's solve for the speed in this equation. Let's get frime by itself. We can do that if we multiply both sides of the equation by the reciprocal of this fraction which is 343 minus VS / 343. So these two will cancel and those two will cancel. So it's going to be this fraction times this number 8544 * 343 minus VS / 343. Now this is equal to F prime. And F prime is also equal to this term. But let's get rid of VS and let's replace it with VO since they're the same. F prime is also equal to 6000 * 343 + VO / 343. So if we multiply both sides by 343, these will cancel. So since both of these equations are equal to F prime, we can set them equal to each other. So let's get rid of this. Now let's distribute 850 8544 * 343 is 2,930,592 and then we're going to have 850 8544 * VO and that's equal to 600 * 343 which which is 2,58,000 plus 6,000 VO. So let's add 8544 VO to both sides. And let's subtract 2,58,000 from both sides. So if we subtract these two numbers, you should get 872,000 and 592. And if we add these two, it's going to be 14,544* V. So let's divide both sides by 14544. So you should get 59.997 which we could say it's about 60 m/s. So that's how fast the driver is going. He's going way past the speed limit of 40 meters per second. So if he's not careful, he's about to get a ticket. So that is it for this video. Thanks for watching and have a great day.

This video is sponsored by The Great Courses Plus. I made a video a while back, called a better description of entropy, because I felt that the bog standard description of entropy wasn't great, and I thought I could do better. It was a really fun video to make so I thought it could become a series, and this is the next one, a better description of resonance. The bog standard description of resonance goes something like this. If you ping a wineglass or pluck a guitar string, then the note that you hear is the frequency that that object likes to vibrate at. It's that object's favorite frequency, it's the resonant frequency of that object, and that's resonance. It's okay as a description, but I think I can do better. The best way I found to describe resonance is using this thing. It's called a Rubens' tube. It's a hollow aluminium tube. At one end it's blocked off with a piece of wood, at the other end it's blocked off with rubber membrane, and if I tap that membrane with my finger then that will send a pulse of pressure through the tube traveling at the speed of sound. When the pulse reaches this end, some of it gets reflected and it travels back through the tube to here, and then when the pulse gets to here some of it gets reflected and it travels back in this direction. So when I tap the rubber membrane, a pulse of pressure bounces backwards and forwards inside the tube getting weaker and weaker and weaker until eventually it fades away to nothing, But! What if I repeatedly tap the rubber membrane? So... I tap the rubber, the pulse passes through the tube, it bounces off here. It comes back to here, [and] just as it reaches this side I tap the Membrane again, and now the pulse is even bigger than it was before because I've added to it. So now a larger pulse is traveling through the tube. It bounces back, gets to here. Just when it gets to here, I tap it a third time, and now the pulse is even bigger again. And if I keep doing that, if I keep tapping the rubber membrane, at just the right time, the pulse will get bigger and bigger and bigger. And that's resonance. Resonance is... getting the timing just right, getting the frequency just right, so that the energy you put into the system adds to the energy that's already there. That's resonance. So the frequency of taps that I need to... That I need to get, that's the resonant frequency of the column of air inside this tube, but it's not the only resonant frequency of the column of air. There are infinitely many. So for example, if I tap the rubber membrane and a pulse goes into the tube and then I tap it a second time, so now there are two pulses inside the tube [and] they cross over like this, and then, the third tap happens when the first tap gets back. Or I could tap the rubber membrane twice. So you know one goes in, another one goes in there, maybe, and then a third one goes in like that, and then the fourth tap doesn't happen until the first one gets back. But I'm still getting the timing just right, so that the energy I put in adds to the energy that's already there, It's just that I've waited for a couple of taps to go in first. So what's that like when you've got pulses coming in from this direction and the reflected pulses coming back, and they're crossing over each other? It looks like this. So the waves, coming from both directions, they cross over each other and they add together, and when you add them together, you get something called a standing wave, where you have nodes and antinodes, the nodes are the points where there's no movement and the anti nodes are the points where there's lots of movement. So how fast do I need to tap this membrane to see the effect? Well much faster than I can tap with my finger. In fact it's an audible frequency, so instead of using my finger, I'll attach a speaker to the end, like this. So if I can drive the speaker, at the resonating frequency of this tube, then the energy that I put into the system adds to the energy that's already there and we should hear that as an increase in the amplitude of the sound. We should hear the volume go up, so let's try that... Okay, so this isn't one of the resonating frequencies of the tube, if I just bump up the frequency a little bit... Okay... so the volume went up. I found the resonating frequency of this tube, the speaker is "tapping" the rubber membrane at just the right speed so that the next tap of the speaker is meeting one of the returning pulses from this end and... we're adding to the energy that's already in the system. That's resonance. The problem is, you can't really see what's happening because it's happening inside the Tube and... air is invisible. Which is why the Rubens' tube is designed to be set on fire. Before I set anything on fire, I have actually switched out the Rubens' Tube, the first one I showed you was one I built myself, and it was a while ago, and I didn't know what I was doing, and it's a little bit worse for wear. so I wasn't comfortable setting that one on fire. This is one that I bought, the only problem with this one is that the speaker assembly is completely enclosed, and I really wanted to show you the rubber membrane, and the whole tapping thing. With this one, I'm comfortable to set it on fire. So we pump in butane through here, and then we set light to it. The first thing you have to do is fill the Tube with butane. Basically you have to get past fifteen percent butane because that's a dangerous mixture. It's a stoichiometric ratio, and it's explosive so we just have to make sure Mm. we get- I can smell percentages. So. So hopefully you can see the result of the standing wave in the flames. So these points are the nodes... here and here. These are the anti nodes. So these points, the nodes (where the flames are small) those are the points where the pressure isn't varying very much at that point. The tall flames, those are the anti nodes those are the points where the pressure is varying a lot, at that point, and- let's see if we can find some higher ones. I swept through a few there, let's see what we've got. And that is the Rubens' Tube. So what's all this got to do with the sound that something makes when you hit it, or pluck it, or blow over it? Well any scenario like that you come across, needs its own explanation. So let's look at one particular example. Let's look at wind instruments. So I've got my wind instrument here, it's a bottle and I've filled it with water and I can blow over the neck like this, *Bottle makes a nice note* And when I do that, I get a nice note. So why does that happen and how does it relate to resonance? So when you make that noise with your mouth, that kind of *Whoosh* noise, that's white noise, And you may have heard white noise being described as a mixture of all frequencies within a range at the same time. So when you get that kind of hissing, whooshing, sound it's a whole range of frequencies all jumbled up together. So when you blow over the neck of a bottle, you're driving the body of air inside at a whole range of frequencies. But because of what we learned with the Rubens' Tube It's actually only the resonant frequencies of the body of air inside that get amplified. So those are the ones that you hear. Interestingly when you hear a wind instrument, you perceive the lowest resonating frequency, and all the other frequencies that are being generated when you blow over the neck of a bottle like this just add to the timbre of the sound, they don't change the perceived pitch of the sound. So the quality changes, the timbre changes, depending on the balance of the resonating frequencies that are generated, and it's this balance that helps us to distinguish one instrument from another. [In] the case of a guitar string being plucked is a bit more k- it is a guitar actually, I'm just massive. The case of a guitar string being plucked is a bit more complicated, it involves things like Fourier analysis, and stuff like that. It's really interesting and I may cover it in a future video but for now I'm going to leave you with the Rubens' Tube responding to music. But before that, if you're interested in learning more about wave dynamics and resonance and sound and that sort of stuff then I can recommend an online course it's called physics and our universe and you can find it over at thegreatcoursesplus.com I'm grateful to the great courses plus for sponsoring this video. If you want to see physics and our universe - the course, for free - then you can sign up for a free trial at or click on the link in the description. If you use that url, or the link in the description then they know that I've sent you, which really helps me out. The great courses plus is an online on-demand video learning service, and if you sign up now, then you'll have unlimited access to 7,000 plus videos from top-notch lecturers and experts on the subjects that you love - in your case probably science and maths. *Playing At Rest, by Kevin MacLeod* I hope you enjoyed this video, if you did don't forget to hit subscribe and click on the notification bell, and I'll see you next time. Check out these other videos that feature resonance, and the original better description video about entropy.