SYS 304
Trade Studies, Risk, and Decision Analysis


    Advanced Trade Studies
     and Decision Analysis
           Methods

   Quality Function Deployment
Quality Function Deployment
 Introduced by Yoji Akao, 1966.
  ◼ Kobe Shipyard of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., Japan.
  ◼ Used in manufacturing, heavy industry, and systems
    engineering.
  ◼ Also applied to software engineering by IBM, HP, Texas
    Instruments, etc.
 Supports information transformation.
  ◼   Customer requirements into product attributes.
 Mechanism can be extended and deployed
  successively across multiple levels of system
  decomposition and definition.
Quality Function Deployment
 Technique for discovering customer requirements
  and defining major quality assurance points to be
  used throughout the production phase.
  ◼   Provides a structure for ensuring that customers’ needs
      and desires are acknowledged and directly translated into
      technical requirements, from analysis through
      implementation to deployment.
 Constructs relationship matrices between customer
  needs, technical requirements, priorities, and (if
  needed) competitor assessment.
Quality Function Deployment
 Methodology for translating customer needs into
  specific system or product characteristics, and then
  for specifying the processes and tasks needed to
  produce that system or product.
  ◼ Requires that the project team articulate the means by
    which the product or system designed will achieve
    customer requirements.
  ◼ Process starts with market needs and then uses a
    planning matrix called the house of quality to translate the
    needs or requirements into the necessary technical
    requirements.
Graphical Representation
 House of Quality
House of Quality
 Uses expert opinion to facilitate and document
  relevant information transformation.
  ◼   Transformation of customer requirements (“What’s”)
      into product attributes (“How’s”).
 Requirements can be issued using a top-down or
  a bottom-up approach.
  ◼ Tree diagram for top-down approach.
  ◼ Affinity diagram for bottom-up approach.
  ◼ Prioritization matrix to enable prioritization of
    requirements.
Supporting Tools for QFD
House of Quality
 Customer Requirements: “What’s”
  ◼ Customer requirements competitive assessment.
  ◼ Tree diagram for top-down decomposition.
  ◼ Affinity diagram for bottom-up composition.

 Importance Ranking.
  ◼   Prioritization matrix to support prioritization of
      requirements.
 Correlation Matrix (Greenhouse).
  ◼ Measure correlation among customer requirements.
  ◼ Supports execution of trade-off studies in the design
    process.
  ◼ Can help in identifying conflicting requirements.
  ◼ Use of the greenhouse is optional.
House of Quality
 System Requirements: “How’s”
   ◼ Technical competitive assessment.
   ◼ Tree diagram for top-down decomposition.
   ◼ Affinity diagram for bottom-up composition.

 Technical Importance.
   ◼   Estimated for each system attribute as a weighted sum
       of all customer requirements relationship values, for
       that attribute, where the weights are the importance
       ratings for the customer requirements.
 Technical Difficulty.
   ◼ Design requirement assessed and documented for each
     system attribute with a discrete scale.
   ◼ Combination of technical importance and difficulty
     provides a measure of technical risk.
House of Quality
 Direction of Improvement.
  ◼ An upward arrow indicates “higher is better”
  ◼ Downward arrow indicates “lower is better”
  ◼ Zero denoted a target value.

 Correlation Matrix (Roof).
  ◼ Indicates whether an increase in a system attribute is
    accompanied by an increase (positive correlation), no
    change (zero correlation), or a decrease (negative
    correlation) on another system attribute.
      {positive, zero, negative}

      {strong positive, weak positive, zero, weak
       negative, strong negative}
  ◼ Generation supported by expert opinion or tools such
    as the interrelationship diagram.
House of Quality
 Correlation Matrix.
House of Quality
 Relationship Matrix (Main Room).
  ◼ Captures the relational structure between the two sets of
    attributes.
  ◼ Importance of each system attribute relative to attaining
    the different customer requirements.
  ◼ More importance denotes a stronger relationship.

 Customer Requirements Competitive Assessment.
  ◼ Set of existing system is identified as competitors.
  ◼ Based on experts assessment.

 Technical Competitive Assessment.
  ◼   Assessment done for competitive systems relative to
      system attributes.
House of Quality
 Levels of decomposition.
Quality Function Deployment
 Advantages
  ◼ Improves the involvement of users and managers.
  ◼ Shortens the development lifecycle and improves overall
    project development.
  ◼ Supports team involvement by structuring communication
    processes.
  ◼ Provides a preventive tool that avoids the loss of
    information.
Quality Function Deployment
 Disadvantages
  ◼ Difficulty in expressing temporal requirements.
  ◼ Difficulty in use with an entirely new project type.
       How do you discover customer requirements for
        something that does not exist?
       How do you build and analyze the competitive
        products?
  ◼ Sometimes it is hard to find measurements for certain
    functions and to keep the level of abstraction uniform.
  ◼ As the feature list grows uncontrollably, the house of
    quality can become a “mansion”
Quality Function Deployment
 Example:
  ◼ House of Quality for a Television Remote Control
    Switch.
Television Remote Control Switch
 Rows: Customer Requirements (Needs).
  ◼ What the customers think is important for the product.
  ◼ Product “what’s”
  ◼ Importance to customer: requirements have been rank
    ordered 1-6 by customer preference.
      “Multifunction buttons” is rated the highest.

      “RC easy to see/find” is rated the lowest.

 Columns: Technical Requirements.
  ◼ Requirements or attributes of the product, the ways that
    the product meets customer requirements.
  ◼ Product “how’s”
Television Remote Control Switch
 Central matrix: Relationships between the “what’s”
  and “how’s”
  ◼ Show the strength of the relationships: strong positive,
    positive, negative, strong negative.
  ◼ “Buttons easy to use” has a strong positive relationship to
    the “Size of buttons” and “Color of buttons”
  ◼ “Buttons easy to use” has a positive relationship to the
    “Dimensions of the RC chassis”
  ◼ Each relationship has a numerical weighting of 1, 3, or 9.
Television Remote Control Switch
 Importance weighting.
  ◼ Weights of the symbols in each column are summed to
    determine the relative importance of the technical
    attributes.
  ◼ Most important technical attribute is “Dimensions of RC
    chassis”
      Weight = 9 + 3 + 1 + 9 = 22

  ◼ Next most important attributes is “Size of buttons” and
    “Color of RC chassis”
      Weight = 9 + 3 = 12
Television Remote Control Switch
 Roof: Correlation matrix among the technical
  attributes.
  ◼ “Dimensions of RC chassis” has a strong positive
    correlation with “Size of buttons” and “Number of buttons”
  ◼ “Size of buttons” has a strong negative correlation with
    “Number of buttons”
      Smaller buttons allow space for more buttons; large
       buttons, space for fewer.
 Target values.
  ◼ Numerical or qualitative descriptions are design target set
    for the technical attributes.
  ◼ One target of the design is to keep the “Dimensions of RC
    chassis” within “6 x 18 x 2”
Television Remote Control Switch
 Technical evaluation.
  ◼ Graph compares the company on the technical attributes.
  ◼ X = “us” against two of its competitors, A and B.
  ◼ The company’s current product does relatively poorly on
    the attributes of “Dimensions of RC chassis” and “Color of
    buttons”
  ◼ The company’s current product fares well on “Color of RC
    chassis” and “Button press/return mechanism”
  ◼ These evaluations are based on test results and opinions
    of engineers.
Television Remote Control Switch
 Competitive evaluation.
  ◼ Graph rates the company and its competitors in terms of
    customer requirements based on customer surveys.
  ◼ Customers think the company does best in “RC easy to
    hold” but worst in terms of “Buttons easy to see”
  ◼ Suggests areas in which designers might focus the effort
    to gain a market niche.
  ◼ Rating indicates that no company does well on “Buttons
    easy to see” despite the fact that customers rank that
    requirement second in importance.
  ◼ A requirement that customers rank high, yet on which
    they rank all companies low, suggests a design feature
    that could be exploited to improve a company’s
    competitive standing.
Quality Function Deployment
 Example:
  ◼ House of Quality for a Steam Iron.
Steam Iron Example
