SYS 304
Trade Studies, Risk, and Decision Analysis


    Applications to Systems
          Engineering


     Systems Analysis Process
Systems Analysis
 Decision analysis is an important part of systems
  analysis.
 Studying systems analysis.
  ◼ Mathematics can be studied for its intrinsic truth and
    beauty.
  ◼ Systems analysis is different: it exists to solve real
    problems for real customers.
  ◼ Tools of systems analysis are important, but they are not
    the product.
  ◼ The product is obtained by using systems analysis tools
    for solving real-world problems.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 1: There always is a client.
   ◼ It is easy to get subjective.
   ◼ It is easy to carve the system problem to fit your tools
     and to suit yourself.
   ◼ Client provides necessary input.
   ◼ Client-focused analysis provides a reality check.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 2: Your client does not understand his own
  problem.
  ◼ Client is part of the problem and knows that.
  ◼ It is human nature for the client to attempt to cover up his
    mistakes.
  ◼ Client lies accidentally or unconsciously even more often.
  ◼ Systems analyst is called upon when there is a problem.
  ◼ If the client knew what the problem is, he would fix it
    without seeking the analyst’s advice.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 3: The original problem statement is too
  specific; you must generalize the problem to give it
  contextual integrity.
  ◼ Discussions between analyst and client lead to a mutual
    understanding of the client’s problem, which usually is too
    specific.
  ◼ Analyst must generalize client’s problem first to arrive at a
    better understanding of the client’s needs.
  ◼ Generalizing too far broadens the topic to the point that it
    is difficult to solve it in the time and with the money
    available.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 4: The client does not understand the concept
  of the index of performance.
  ◼ System analysts go about optimizing things (maximize
    profit, maximize mean time between failures, minimize
    cost, minimize installation time).
  ◼ Truth is, almost no one optimizes anything in real life.
  ◼ In real life, we try to behave so as to avoid major risks.
  ◼ In real life, we seek merely to better things incrementally.
  ◼ The index of performance is the tool used for measuring
    the progress the system is making toward the optimum.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 5: You are the analyst, not the decision-maker.
  ◼ Standard cycle of emotions through which system analysts
    put themselves as they deal with an assignment.
  ◼ First is fear: the client organization is often well known and
    thought to be competent.
  ◼ Second is arrogance: how could the client be so stupid as to
    get himself in this?
  ◼ Third is the maturation: analyst begins to identify closely to
    client’s problem. But remember, you are the analyst not the
    decision maker.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 6: Meet the time deadline and the cost budget.
  ◼ Clients go into hysterics if they are told we need to
    generalize the problem and take a top-down approach,
    because they suspect this is a trick to avoid facing hard
    reality, and the study won’t finish on time and as budgeted.
  ◼ But, generalizing is way of coming to grips with the actual
    problem.
  ◼ The problem probably is ill-defined, or the system analyst
    wouldn’t have been hired in the first place.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 7: Take a goal-centered approach to the
  problem, not a technology-centered or chronological
  approach.
  ◼ Chronological approach seems so logical and
    straightforward that it might be called part of the folk
    wisdom of mankind.
  ◼ Chronological approach requires exploration of many blind
    alleys.
  ◼ Technological approach tends to produce an artificially
    narrow options field and may result in exclusion of superior
    solutions.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 8: Non-users must be considered in the
  analysis and in the final recommendations.
  ◼ System analyst should respect the value system if non-
    users and not project his/her value system on others.
  ◼ Also, we have to recognize that non-users and sometimes
    unreasonable.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 9: Computer simulations are not a solve all
  solution.
  ◼ You cannot get out of a computer model any more than
    you put into it.
  ◼ This does not mean, however, that you can not learn
    some surprising things from a computer model.
  ◼ All of the solutions of a mathematical relationship are
    implied by the relationship itself.
  ◼ It does not mean that you know all of the solutions when
    you write the mathematical equation.
  ◼ The same is true of a computer model.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 10: The role of decision-maker in public
  systems is often a confused one.
  ◼   It is true that role titles are sometimes used
      interchangeably.
 Analyst
  ◼ Professional who aids those involved with a problem to
    order the alternatives and decide on a course of action.
  ◼ Should be neutral and objective and should have no stake
    in the outcome.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 10: The role of decision-maker in public
  systems is often a confused one.
 Client
  ◼ Person or group with whom the analyst interacts during
    goal definition.
  ◼ Receives final report and sometimes pays the bill.
  ◼ Affected by the outcome and thus is a stakeholder.
  ◼ May be empowered to choose from among the options
    and thus is a decision maker, but not always.
 Stakeholders
  ◼ All those affected by the system.
  ◼ May be users or non-users.
  ◼ Need not be clients or decision makers.
Rules for Systems Analysis
 Rule 10: The role of decision-maker in public
  systems is often a confused one.
 Sponsor
  ◼ Pays the bill.
  ◼ May or may not be the client.
  ◼ Usually a stakeholder.

 Decision maker
  ◼ Chooses from among the options.
  ◼ Must choose the particular index of performance.
