You know what can be kind of peculiar and surprising? The fact that, whenever you want to shoot outside, everyone decides to mow their lawn. You know what else can be kind of peculiar and surprising? Water. And in the right circumstances, I could even take water that’s flowing down and spurt it straight up. How? All of these things are possible, thanks to the study of the flow of fluids, known as Fluid Dynamics. [Theme Music] By now, you’ve picked up on the fact that -- even though we live in the physical universe -- describing the rules of the universe sometimes requires us to pretend that certain things aren’t happening. Like the time we rolled a bunch of stuff down a ramp, and pretended that there was no kinetic friction. The same is true when we talk about fluids. Because, fluids in motion are dynamic and there are many, many things going on in and around them all at once. So, in order to grasp the essentials of fluid dynamics, let’s just do some pretending, shall we? For one thing, we’re going to consider the fluids in our examples to be incompressible, meaning that their densities won’t change. We’re also going to assume that fluids flow perfectly smoothly, and have no viscosity. You’ve probably heard of viscosity before: When a fluid flows easily, like water, we say that it has a low viscosity. Fluids that don’t flow as easily, like honey, have a higher viscosity. And much like kinetic friction does in moving objects, viscosity tends to complicate things in moving fluids, which is why we’re generally going to pretend that the fluids we’re studying don’t have any. Now, say you have some water -- which exists under all of these hypothetical conditions -- in a pipe, moving along smoothly. This pipe narrows about halfway through, so that one end is narrower than the other. This shape is going to affect some of the properties of the water’s flow, as it passes through the narrower side of the pipe compared to the wider side. But one thing that won't change is the mass of water that’s moving through any given area in the pipe over time. This is called the mass flow rate, and it’s always going to be the same everywhere in the pipe. That’s just because, as the water flows through the pipe, it pushes along the water in the rest of the pipe, too. So if one part of the pipe has, say, a kilogram of water moving through it every second, the rest of the pipe ALSO has to have a kilogram of water moving through it every second. This fact, that the mass flow rate at one point in the pipe will be equal to the mass flow rate at any other point, is called the equation of continuity. And it can tell you a lot about the relationship between the velocity of a fluid and the cross-sectional area of the pipe that it’s flowing through. Let’s say you’re an engineer for the Water Department of Hypothetical City, and you need to understand the mass flow rate of hypothetical water that’s going through a certain point in your underground pipe system. But you don’t know the mass that’s going through that part of the pipe at any given moment. All you know are the water’s velocity and the area of the cross-section of that certain section of pipe. In order to describe the mass flow rate, you’ll have to use what we know about density, area, and velocity to work some algebra magic: First, let’s have a look at a cross section of that point of the pipe. From our last lesson, you know that the mass of the fluid moving past this cross-sectional area, over time, is equal to its density, times its volume. And, the volume of the fluid moving past this point is simply the area of the pipe at this cross section, times the distance the fluid moves. And! From our episodes on the physics of motion, you also know that the distance the fluid moves, divided by the change in time, is equal to the fluid’s velocity. So, by putting all that together, you can get a different version of the equation of continuity: At any given point in the pipe, the density of the fluid flowing through it, times the area of the pipe, times the fluid’s velocity, will be the same as for any other point in the pipe. And since you’re dealing with an incompressible fluid, the density is going to be the same for every point in the pipe anyway. So really, you’ve just figured out that at any point in the pipe, the area of the pipe times the fluid’s velocity will be the same as for any other point. It’s the same thing we said before: The mass flow rate is the same for every point in the pipe. But instead of putting that relationship in terms of mass and time, you’re putting it in terms of area and velocity. And, in your role as a water-department engineer, this is important for you to know! Because it means that, where the pipe is narrower, the fluid will have to flow faster, in order to compensate. But here’s a weird thing: A fluid that’s flowing really fast actually has less pressure than when it’s flowing more slowly. Sure, it might feel like it’s exerting more force than when it flows through a wider opening. But that’s not what physicists mean when they talk about the pressure in a pipe. They’re really talking about the pressure on the walls of the pipe. This means that, the slower the fluid flows, the more pressure it puts on the pipe itself. This is known as Bernoulli’s principle. It states that the higher a fluid’s velocity is through a pipe, the lower the pressure on the pipe’s walls, and vice versa. Bernoulli also came up with what we now know as Bernoulli’s equation. It might look kind of intimidating at first. But when you break it down, it’s actually just a way of combining a bunch of things that you’ve already learned. Bernoulli based his equation on the concept of conservation of energy: as a fluid flows through a pipe, it won’t gain or lose any energy. This means that, no matter where the fluid is in the pipe, if you take all of the forms of energy that the fluid has at that point and add them up, they’ll equal the same number as any other point in the pipe. To better understand this, have a look at how the three forms of energy in a fluid are represented in Bernoulli’s equation: First, there’s pressure times volume. In our episode on work and energy, we defined energy as the ability to do work. And when a fluid applies pressure and moves the volume of fluid that’s downstream, it’s doing work. So, pressure times volume must be a form of energy. The first term in Bernoulli’s equation takes that energy, and divides it by volume. Which just leaves pressure. Next, a flowing fluid also has kinetic energy. When we first talked about kinetic energy, we said that it’s equal to half of an object’s mass, times its velocity squared. Again, Bernoulli divided this form of energy by volume, to get half the fluid’s density, times its velocity squared. That’s called the kinetic energy density, and it’s the second term of Bernoulli’s equation. Finally, a flowing fluid also has the potential energy that comes from gravity. And we’ve said before that the potential energy from gravity is equal to an object’s mass, times small g, times its height. When Bernoulli divided that by volume, he got density times small g times height -- the potential energy density, and the third term of his equation. Why divide all these terms by volume? Well, when it comes to fluids, it’s just easier to talk about things in terms of density than it is to talk about mass. So when you look at his equation piece by piece, you can see that Bernoulli was really just putting conservation of energy into a special form that would be useful for fluids. Now, let’s look at a special case of Bernoulli’s equation, known as Torricelli’s theorem. Torricelli’s theorem uses conservation of energy to find the velocity of fluid flowing from a small spout in a container. And it says that the velocity of the fluid coming out of the spout is the same as the velocity of a single droplet of fluid that falls from the height of the surface of the fluid in the container. In other words, the pressure that’s pushing the fluid out of the spout gives it the same velocity that it would get from the force of gravity. To see this theorem in action, let’s say you’re not a water department engineer -- you’re just YOU, and you’re watering your garden with the water you’ve saved up in your rain barrel. Your barrel doesn’t have a top, and you’re watering your carrots and lettuce and stuff from a hole -- or a spout -- in the side. Now: You want to know: What’s the velocity of the water coming out of the spout? From Bernoulli’s equation, we know that the sum of the pressure, kinetic energy density, and the potential energy density of the water at the TOP of the cooler, will equal the sum of those three qualities of the water coming out of the spout. But we can simplify that relationship a bit, to find the velocity of the fluid coming out. First, the upper surface of the water in the barrel, and the water that’s coming out of the spout, are both exposed to the atmosphere. So the pressure at those points will be the same -- it’s just the atmospheric pressure. So we can cross off the pressure from each side of the equation. Now, there might be water coming out of the spout, but the top of the barrel has a much bigger area. So the water at the top of the barrel isn’t going to be moving very much. In fact, we can say that its velocity is basically zero. Which means that the kinetic energy density for the water at the top of the barrel is zero. Finally, we can cross out the density in each term of the equation, since it’s not changing. We’re left with a much simpler equation, with only three terms -- an equation that should look VERY familiar, if you’ve watched our episodes on the physics of motion. It’s a kinematic equation! You already know the two main kinematic equations: the definition of acceleration and the displacement curve. And you can rearrange them to get another equation that relates displacement, velocity, and acceleration -- without considering time. It’s exactly the same equation as the one we just found by using Bernoulli’s equation to describe the velocity of the water coming out of the spout. So, Torricelli’s theorem tells you that if a droplet of water fell from the same height as the top of the barrel, when it reached the level of the spout, it’d have the same velocity as the water coming out of the spout. Now you know how fast the water’s coming out your rain barrel, and how much water you’re putting in your garden over a certain amount of time. But you want to try something fun? Let’s turn the spout on your barrel so it’s pointing up instead of down. If the water from this spout could shoot straight up, the stream would get exactly as high as the water at the top of the barrel, before falling down to the ground. Today, you learned about fluids in motion, with a focus on the continuity equation, Bernoulli’s equation, and Torricelli’s theorem. You also learned that lawn mowers are loud. Crash Course Physics is produced in association with PBS Digital Studios. You can head over to their channel to check out amazing shows like BBQ With Franklin, PBS Off Book, and The Art Assignment. This episode of Crash Course was filmed in the Doctor Cheryl C. Kinney Crash Course Studio with the help of these amazing people and our equally amazing graphics team is Thought Cafe.


in this video we're gonna focus on Bernoulli's equation to solve physics problems so let's start with this one water flows through a horizontal pipe with a cross-sectional area of 4 square meters at a speed of 5 minutes per second with a pressure of 300,000 Pascal's at point 8 at point B the cross-sectional area is two square meters what is the speed of water at point B so let's draw a picture so we have a horizontal pipe and the cross-sectional area is being reduced so this is going to be point a and this is going to be point B so at Point a the speed of water flowing is 5 meters per second we need to calculate the speed at point B the area at Point a is 4 square meters and the area at point B is 2 square meters there's a question for you if the cross-sectional area decreases what's going to happen to the speed of the fluid anytime you decrease the cross-sectional area the speed of the fluid will increase and the equation that we could use to get the answer is the continuity equation for an incompressible fluid a - v1 is I mean a 1 v1 is equal to a2 v2 so a 1 is 4 v1 is 5 a 2 is 2 and we're looking for v2 so v2 is going to be 4 times 5 which is 20 divided by 2 which is 10 so at point B the speed of water is 10 meters per second so if you reduce the area by a factor of 2 the speed will increase by a factor of 2 so now let's move on to Part B calculate the pressure might be so p1 is 300,000 pass cows we need to calculate the pressure that point B so will the pressure be higher or lower so one aspect of Bernoulli's principle is that the pressure is high when the speed is low and the pressure is low when a speed is high so because the fluid is moving faster at point B the pressure has to be lower in fact as the fluid moves from A to B its accelerated so therefore there has to be a net force that will accelerate the fluid from A to B and pressure is associated with force pressure is force over area so therefore in order to accelerate the fluid towards the right the force at point a has to be larger than the force at point B so therefore in order to get that net force in the positive x-direction point a has to be at high pressure and point B has to be at low pressure so now let's calculate p2 so we should get an answer that's less than 300,000 Pascal's so let's use Bernoulli's equation to get the answer so here's been release equation P 1 the pressure plus Rho gh 1 where this is the density of the fluid plus one-half Rho v1 squared that's equal to p2 plus Rho G H two plus one-half Rho v2 squared now the height of the pipe does not change so therefore these terms are insignificant p1 is 300,000 Pascal's the density of water is 1,000 on the left side water flows at a speed of 5 meters per second we're looking for p2 and the speed on the right is 10 so let's erase a few things one half of a thousand times 5 squared is 12,500 and if we add 300,000 to that we have 300 12,500 on the left side on the right side that's p2 plus 1/2 of a thousand times 10 squared which is 50,000 so p2 is going to be three hundred twelve thousand five hundred minus fifty thousand so the pressure at point B is two hundred sixty two thousand five hundred Pascal's so notice that it's less than the pressure on the left side which is three hundred thousand so as we can see as the speed increases from five to ten the pressure decreases from three hundred thousand to two hundred sixty two thousand five hundred so what you want to take from this is that as the speed increases the pressure in the fluid decreases they're inversely related now let's talk about how we could derive the equation the portion of Bernoulli's equation that we use to get the answer so we know point a has a pressure p1 point B has a pressure p2 and so because the fluid is accelerating towards the right we know that f1 has to be greater than f2 and as the fluid accelerates from a low speed to a high speed the pressure decreases and so the work that's done by the net pressure or the pressure difference between points a and B is equal to the change in kinetic energy the kinetic energy of the fluids increase in because it's moving faster so we could set W equal to Delta ke not work we know its force times displacement and the change in kinetic energy is the final kinetic energy minus the initial kinetic energy now keep in mind this is the net force now if we multiply the top and the bottom by area on the left side what we could have is the net force divided by area times area times displacement area times displacement or area times height that's equal to volume and the final kinetic energy is one-half MV final squared and the initial kinetic energy is one-half MV initial squared now force over area is pressure so this is going to be the net pressure which is basically the change in pressure the difference between points a and B so that's force over area so we have the change in pressure times volume is equal to everything on the right side now what we need to do is divide every term by the volume on the left side we could cancel the volume and we could be placed Delta P with p1 minus p2 mass divided by volume is density so this is gonna be one half roll which is M over V times V final squared so that's gonna be let's say v2 squared minus one-half M v1 squared I mean not M but Rho v1 squared because that's mass over volume so I'm gonna take this pressure and move it to this side so it's gonna be positive and take this value move to that side so it's gonna be positive as well so this is gonna be p1 plus one-half Rho v1 squared equals p2 plus one-half Rho v2 squared so this is the portion of Bernoulli's equation that we use to calculate the new pressure at a different speed so it comes from the work-energy principle now let's work on this problem I wrote a number one but this is supposed to be number two so water is flowing through this circular pipe with a constant radius of 10 centimeters we're given the speed and pressure at Point a what is the speed of the fluid at point B and also what is the pressure at point B and point B is 10 meters higher than point a so go ahead and feel free to use Bernoulli's equation to answer Parts A and B you can pause the video if you want to now the pressure at Point a is 250,000 Pascal's and the radius its constant the radius doesn't change so the radius at point a and point B is 10 centimeters so first what is the speed of the fluid at point B we know that if the area decreases the speed will increase and if the area increases the speed will decrease however the radius of the pipe doesn't change so the area is constant which means that the speed has to be constant based on this equation so if a1 is equal to a2 v1 is equal to v2 so the speed is not changing so the speed at point B is 4 meters per second the only thing that's changing is the height now we know the relationship between speed and pressure as we saw in the last example if the speed increases the pressure is going to decrease so in this problem the pressure is not going to change tooth the speed the speed is constant so if the pressure changes it has to be due to the height so let's say a is that ground level that means B is at a height of 10 if we increase the height what's gonna happen to the pressure now in the first scenario in the last problem the pressure decreased because energy was needed to speed up the fluid from a low speed to a high speed in this example the pressure has to decrease in order to increase the gravitational potential energy of the fluid in order to lift the fluid from point A to point B to work against gravity the pressure has to decrease so what you need to know is that at a low elevation the pressure is high so the pressure is high at the bottom and it's low at the top so whenever you increase the height the pressure will decrease so make sure you understand that so now let's calculate p2 using Bernoulli's equation so it's p1 plus Rho gh 1 plus 1/2 Rho v1 squared that's equal to p2 plus Rho G H 2 plus 1/2 Rho v2 squared so we have p1 that's 250 thousand Pascal in this example the speed does not change so therefore this quantity will not change we could cancel it the height does change now since we're assuming that a is the ground level the height at a is zero so we can say h1 is zero and the height at point B is 10 meters above ground level so h2 is 10 so because H 1 is zero we don't need to worry about that quantity now we're looking for p2 and this should be gone so this quantity is important so Rho the density of waters a thousand g is 9.8 and h2 is 10 so if we multiply a thousand times 9.8 times 10 that's 98 thousand so P 2 is gonna be 250,000 divided by 98 thousand so that's 150 mm Pascal's so as we can see the pressure is lower at a higher elevation and perhaps you've seen is if you live in a two-story house now depending on the pressure in the tanks you might notice that the pressure on the first floor let's say in a faucet the water pressure might be stronger on a first floor but on a second floor you might notice that it might be a little bit weaker and the reason being is it's at a higher elevation so as you go up the pressures gonna be lower and so the water but you can tell that there's less pressure in the water at the top than at the bottom now what we're going to do at this point is derive the portion of Bernoulli's equation that we used to get this answer so it's gonna be everything except for those two terms so we're going to show that this quantity is equal to that quantity so in this example the pressure difference between points a and B is needed to lift up the fluid by a height H or let's say from let's say this is ground level this would be h1 and this will be H 2 so the difference is H so in this case the pressure difference has to go against gravity it has to increase the potential energy of the fluid so we're going to set work equal to the change in gravitational potential energy and as we saw in the last example we said that work is Force Times displacement and this was based on a difference in the two forces and then we multiply the top and bottom by the area so we have F 1 minus F 2 over a and that's equal to D times a so area times displacement or area times height was volume and so we have F 1 over a minus F 2 over a times volume force divided by areas pressure so it's P 1 minus P 2 times volume so the work due to pressure can be described as the change in pressure times volume or sometimes it could be pressure times the change in volume depending on what's constant what's changing so I'm gonna skip this entire step and jump to W equals Delta PV just a save time so the work done by pressure is going to be the change in pressure times volume and the change in potential energy is going to be the final potential energy minus the initial potential energy so MGH 2 represents the final potential energy MGH 1 represents the initial potential energy next we need to divide every term by the volume so the change in pressure is P 1 minus P 2 and as we saw before mass over volume is density so we're gonna row gh 2 minus Rho gh 1 so let's take this term move it to that side and this term move it to this side so on the Left we're gonna have positive P one plus Rho gh one on the right P 2 plus Rho gh 2 so that's how we can derive this portion of Bernoulli's equation number three calculate the pressure and speed of water at points B and C shown below so first so let's talk about the speeds what does this be that point B now if we look at the cross sectional area it doesn't change between a and B so therefore the speed at points a and B should be the same so at point B the speed has to be 10 meters per second now going from B to C notice that the area doubles and as we said before if you increase the cross-sectional area the velocity has to decrease and we could use this formula to get the velocity a 1 V 1 is equal to a 2 V 2 so or in this case we're gonna use a 2 V 2 is equal to a 3 V 3 so a 2 is 3 this and V 2 is 10 a 3 is 6 and we got to calculate V 3 so it's gonna be 3 times 10 which is 30 divided by 6 so that's 5 so the speed at Point C is 5 minutes per second so if you double the cross-sectional area the speed will be reduced by a factor of 2 so it went from 10 to 5 now what about the pressure so at point B is the pressure higher or lower than point 8 in the last video we saw that or the last problem rather as we increase the height the pressure decreases the pressure is low at a high elevation and the pressure is high at a low elevation well point B is lower in elevation of 0.8 so point B should exist at a higher pressure so if you decrease the elevation or the height the pressure has to increase now which one is higher is the pressure higher at point B or Point C as the velocity increases the pressure decreases as we saw in problem one whenever the speed increases the pressure has to be reduced so the pressure is high when the speed is low and the pressure is low when a speed is high so if we decrease the speed the pressure should increase so therefore the pressure at Point C has to be greater at point B then the pressure at point B is greater than the pressure at Point a now let's use Bernoulli's equation to calculate the pressure at point B so we're gonna go from point A to point B so p1 plus Rho G H one plus one half Rho v1 squared that's equal to p2 plus Rho G H two plus one-half Rho v2 squared so at Point a which is the left side of the equation the pressure is 300,000 Pascal's now let's define point B and C to be the ground level so the height at point B and C we're going to say is zero so a is at an elevation of 20 so H 1 is 20 H 2 and H 3 is 0 they're at ground level so this is going to be a thousand times G which is nine point a and H one is 20 meters above the reference level now between points a and B this B does not change so we don't need this term and H two is zero just as H three is zero because they're at the reference level so we don't need this term either so now this should give us P two so it's three hundred thousand plus a thousand times 9.8 times 20 so the pressure at point B let's see if I can fit it in somewhere which I'm gonna call p2 that's four hundred ninety six thousand Pascal's so as we can see the pressure at point B is indeed higher than the pressure at Point a so the pressure is always gonna be higher at a lower elevation than at a higher elevation with everything else being equal now let's focus on Point C let's go from point A to point C so let's use Bernoulli's equation again now this time we need to use the entire equation so all of this stuff on the left side is going to be associated with 0.8 and all of the stuff on the right side is associated Point C so let's make this P 3 instead of P 2 and H 3 and V 3 so P 1 is 300,000 Pascal's and the density of water is still 1,000 G is 9.8 and that point a it's 20 meters above the reference level and then it's going to be 1/2 times the density times the speed at Point a which is 10 meters per second now we're looking for p3 the pressure at Point C and then we have Rho gh 3 so that's 1,000 times 9.8 well actually that's going to be 0 H 3 is 0 so we don't need that turn so I guess we didn't need all six terms of Bernoulli's equation just 5 we do need this term though because the speed changes at Point C so it's 1/2 times the density times the new speed which is 5 meters per second so this is going to be 300,000 and then a thousand times 9.8 times 20 that's 196,000 plus 0.5 times a thousand times 10 squared which is 50,000 and that's equal to p3 plus 0.5 times a thousand times 5 squared which is 12,500 so we need to add 300,000 plus 196 thousand plus 50,000 and take that result and subtracted by 12,500 so the pressure at Point C is five hundred and thirty three thousand five hundred Pascal's so notice that the pressure at Point C is indeed higher than the pressure at point B so if he wants to increase the pressure of a fluid all you got to do is decrease the elevation as the fluid falls down the pressure increases and the second way to increase the pressure is to increase the cross-sectional area as you increase the cross-sectional area the speed slows down and the pressure of the fluid increases now let's talk about how to derive the entire equation for Bernoulli's principle so let's say this is point a and point B and the fluid enters out of speed of v1 at Point a and leaves at a speed of v2 at point B and at point a it's at a height h1 above the ground point B is at a height h2 and point a has a pressure p1 point B has a pressure p2 now let's say that v2 is different than v1 in fact let's say that v2 is greater than V 1 so it's going to take energy to increase the speed of the fluid in order to increase the kinetic energy of the fluid to increase the speed the pressure has to decrease so the kinetic energy doesn't increase for no reason it has to come from somewhere now to increase the gravitational potential energy of the fluid the pressure must also decrease that energy has to come from somewhere so add a low elevation and add a low speed here it's moving slow and here it's moving faster or relatively fast compared to the speed the pressure at point a has to be higher and the pressure at point B has to be lower so anytime you need to increase the speed if you're going from a low speed to a high speed the pressure is decrease and to increase the elevation the pressure of the water has to decrease as well so make sure you understand that concept anytime you increase the elevation the pressure goes up I mean goes down and if you increase the speed the pressure has to go down this one so this time the pressure has to do work to change not only the kinetic energy but also the potential energy so it has to change the mechanical energy of the system so I'm going to set W equal to the change and the mechanical energy of the system and we know that W is going to be the change in pressure times the volume based on our the examples a mechanical energy is the sum of kinetic and potential energy so this is going to be the change and the kinetic energy and the potential energy of the system now the change in pressure is p1 minus p2 and the change in kinetic energy is the final kinetic energy minus the initial kinetic energy the change in gravitational potential energy is the final potential energy minus the initial gravitational potential energy now let's replace the final kinetic energy way from 1/2 M V final squared or M v2 squared and the initial is gonna be one-half M v1 squared the final gravitational potential energy is gonna be mg h2 and the initial is going to be mg h1 so just like we did before we're gonna divide every term by the volume so on the right v will cancel so we're gonna have p1 minus p2 on the left everywhere we see mass over volume we could replace that with density so this is gonna be one half Rho v2 squared minus one half Rho v1 squared plus Rho G H two minus Rho G H one so everything with a1 let's move it to the left side so these two are negative on the right side but they're going to be positive on the left side and everything with a - move it to the right side which is just this one it's negative on the left but it's going to be positive on the right and so this gives us Bernoulli's equation p1 plus one-half Rho v1 squared plus P G h1 and that's equal to p2 plus Rho G H two plus one-half Rho v2 squared and so now you know how to derive this using conservation of energy