--- Page 1 ---
Journal Pre-proofs
Review
Research status and prospect of avionics system technology for spacecraft
Chaoji CHEN, Yaobao YIN, Kewu HUANG, Xiongwen HE
PII:
S1000-9361(25)00654-5
DOI:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cja.2025.104048
Reference:
CJA 104048
To appear in:
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
Received Date:
1 April 2025
Revised Date:
23 December 2025
Accepted Date:
23 December 2025
Please cite this article as: C. CHEN, Y. YIN, K. HUANG, X. HE, Research status and prospect of avionics
system technology for spacecraft, Chinese Journal of Aeronautics (2025), doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cja.
2025.104048
This is a PDF of an article that has undergone enhancements after acceptance, such as the addition of a cover
page and metadata, and formatting for readability. This version will undergo additional copyediting, typesetting
and review before it is published in its final form. As such, this version is no longer the Accepted Manuscript, but
it is not yet the definitive Version of Record; we are providing this early version to give early visibility of the
article. Please note that Elsevier's sharing policy for the Published Journal Article applies to this version, see:
https://www.elsevier.com/about/policies-and-standards/sharing#4-published-journal-article. Please also note that,
during the production process, errors may be discovered which could affect the content, and all legal disclaimers
that apply to the journal pertain.
© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Chinese Society of Aeronautics and Astronautics.


--- Page 2 ---
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
Journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cja
Final Accepted 
Version
Research status and prospect of avionics system technology 
for spacecraft
Chaoji CHEN a,b,*, Yaobao YINa, Kewu HUANGb, Xiongwen HEb
aSchool of Mechanical Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 201804, China
bBeijing Institute of Spacecraft System Engineering, Beijing, 100094, China
Received 1 April 2025; revised 31 August 2025; accepted 17 October 2025
Abstract
The existing studies on spacecraft focus on improving the networked, intelligent, and autonomous level of avionics 
systems. This paper reviews the research status of spacecraft avionics system architecture and typical spacecraft 
avionics system, as well as the technical features and potential trends of key technologies, such as network 
interconnection, high-speed bus, onboard computing, autonomous operation, and software-defined technology. A 
development roadmap, a novel kind of intelligent system architecture and application scenarios of avionics systems 
are then proposed. To tackle the challenges faced in the development of spacecraft avionics systems, suggestions are 
made from the aspects of system architecture, heterogeneous network interconnection, on-orbit intelligent information 
processing, Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) products application, and intelligent autonomous management. This 
provides a guide for the related studies on the development of spacecraft avionics technology.
Keywords: Spacecraft avionics; System architecture; Development roadmap; Network interconnection; High-speed bus; 
Onboard computing; Autonomous operation; Software defined networking
 
*Corresponding author. E-mail address: chaojichen@tongji.edu.cn


--- Page 3 ---
·2 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
2
1. Introduction0F1
The notion of avionics1 was initially used for airplane avionics systems. At present, it is widely used in the design of 
electronic systems for spacecrafts. The avionics system is one of the platform subsystems of a spacecraft, serving as 
its brain, which efficiently manages data, analyzes information, integrates scheduling, and controls the system. As 
spacecrafts have evolved from individual units to constellations and ultimately to space-based networks, their avionics 
systems have increasingly emphasized networking, intelligence, and autonomy. However, because of the unique design 
of spacecraft avionics systems, the differences in information categories, and the various communication protocols, 
resource sharing cannot be performed between different types of applications within the spacecraft, the underlying 
software and hardware cannot be reused, and the interconnection and interoperability between different spacecrafts 
cannot be reached. Constructing an open intelligent avionics system architecture will be a feasible solution.
The space agencies are continuously studying the spacecraft avionics system, in order to meet the demands of the 
future space applications and the rapid advancements in information technology. The U.S. Air Force Research 
Laboratory (AFRL) proposed the Space Plug-and-play Avionics (SPA) system aiming to increase the ability of the 
spacecraft to quickly respond. The European Space Agency (ESA) created the Space AVionics Open Interface 
aRchitecture (SAVOIR) avionics architecture in an effort aiming to unify the design of spacecraft information systems. 
Airbus initiated the avionics architecture referred to as Open Modular Avionics Architecture for Space Applications 
(OMAC4S) aiming to reduce the cost of electronic devices and enhance their maintainability. NASA released the 
Distributed Integrated Modular Avionics (DIMA) architecture standard for the Artemis Return to the Moon mission in 
order to guide the design of avionics system, as well as the avionics architecture referred to as Modular Unified Space 
Technology Avionics for Next Generation (MUSTANG) to conduct modular satellite design. It also implemented an 
avionics architecture based on the software-defined technology in its Blackjack, SmartSat and other programs. In 
addition, due to the technological benefits of the constellation system, SpaceX successfully completed the mass 
production and the launch of its Starlink satellites, which will revolutionize the future satellite application models. 
Due to the future spacecraft requirements for high-speed computing, lightweight design, and function diversification, 
the avionics system is continuously becoming crucial, especially that its design quality significantly affects the overall 
performance of the spacecraft. The main challenges of the avionics systems include making the spacecraft manageable, 
useful, and user-friendly, as well as the all-round support of future space applications. It is expected that the future 
spacecraft will be able to autonomously complete complex tasks, conduct health monitoring and fault handling in order 
to minimize the amount of work associated with ground operation. The successful application of new technologies, 
such as artificial intelligence and cloud computing, in the industrial field laid a solid foundation for the advancement 
of the spacecraft avionics technology. Thus, space organizations are continuously promoting the use of new 
technologies in space missions.
This study focuses on the networked, intelligent, and autonomous requirements of the spacecraft avionics system, 
analyzes the architecture of typical spacecraft avionics systems, and reviews the research status of spacecrafts. It details 
characteristics and development trends of the avionics system technology from five aspects: network interconnection, 
high-speed bus, onboard computing, autonomous operation, and software-defined technology. It then presents the 
development roadmap, intelligent system architecture and typical application scenarios of the avionics system. Finally, 
it provides development suggestions for spacecraft avionics systems, taking challenges faced by the current ones into 
consideration.
2. Research status of spacecraft avionics system
2.1. System architecture
Typical foreign spacecraft avionics system architectures include SPA, SAVOIR, OMAC4S, DIMA, and MUSTANG. 


--- Page 4 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 3 ·
The spacecraft avionics system of China has also made some progress in terms of distributed architecture and SPA 
technology.
2.1.1. Avionics architecture worldwide
To solve the problem of quick response in space, the AFRL proposed a space plug-and-play avionics architecture 
known as SPA2. This architecture started as conceptual study in 2004. Flight tests were then conducted in 2007 and 
20093, to finally evolve to the Modular Open Network ARCHitecture (MONARCH) in 20114. A schematic diagram 
of the SPA architecture is shown in Fig. 15. Note that this architecture is similar to the USB interface standard. It 
consists of components, self-organizing network, plug-and-play middleware, and different types of applications. Its 
software middleware mainly consists of the data manager, task manager, processor manager, and sensor manager. It 
can automatically and quickly discover the inserted component and configure the services it provides. Relevant 
standards supporting the SPA technology have been developed by the American Institute of Aeronautics and 
Astronautics (AIAA) and the Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS)6. Using the SPA technology, 
the mechanical, electrical, and thermal interfaces of spacecrafts should be unified, enabling the quick production, 
assembly, testing, and maintenance, which allows to significantly reduce the time needed for the development of a new 
spacecraft. 
Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of SPA architecture.5 
ESA presented the SAVOIR architecture in 2007 to meet the low-cost and high-performance needs of space avionics 
systems, paving the way for further missions, including the Earth observation and scientific space exploration. This 
architecture aims to reduce the spacecraft design time while enhancing the interchangeability and reusability of the 
device. Fig. 2 shows the SAVOIR reference architecture7-8. Its protocol integrates many standards, such as the CCSDS 
standard, and European Cooperation for Space Standardization (ECSS) standard. This is performed by combining 
multiple protocols to accomplish the system functions. The hardware consists of intelligent sensors and actuators, data 
storage, on-board computers, payloads and instruments. Different devices are connected through several buses, 
including 1553B, SpaceWire, and Time-Triggered Ethernet (TTE). The software adopts a layered architecture and a 
time-space partitioning operating system, and its design adopts software components that can be assembled.
 


--- Page 5 ---
·4 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
4
Fig. 2 SAVOIR reference architecture.7,8
Airbus and TTTech initiated an open modular architecture for spacecraft avionics systems referred to as OMAC4S. 
Its architecture is shown in Fig. 39. It uses commercial backplane standards to make the system highly modular, adopts 
TTE as the backbone, employs a multi-core CPU and a time-space partitioning operating system to increase the 
computer performance. The software is designed to support standard services, such as PUS and APIs for applications. 
This design ensures that each function is an independent interchangeable Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) having all the 
interfaces, software, and hardware needed to reach its intended purpose. The LRU modular design allows the rapid 
replacement at the operating area, which can significantly enhance the system maintainability and reduce the 
maintenance costs.
Fig. 3 OMAC4S architecture.9 
NASA announced the Artemis program, a mission to return to the Moon, which includes sending astronauts to the 
south pole of the moon paving the way for human exploration of Mars. The program involves the successive launch of 
manned spacecraft, lunar surface landers, and lunar orbital space stations. They then released seven interoperable 
standards for avionics, communications, environmental control, energy, robotics, rendezvous and docking, and thermal 
control, which are used to guide the design of the Lunar Gateway space station, serving as a transit station and supply 
hub for the program. Fig. 4 shows the Distributed Integrated Modular Avionics (DIMA) architecture10-11 used in its 
avionics interoperable standard. This architecture is advantageous in terms of size, weight, and power, allowing the 
functional integration with less hardware using TTE bus as the backbone network and widely applying the CCSDS 
standard protocols.


--- Page 6 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 5 ·
Fig. 4 Lunar Gateway avionics system architecture. 10,11 
NASA proposed a backplane-less MUSTANG avionics system architecture12. This architecture provides a set of 
hardware boards and an avionics platform to satisfy the most typical needs of data processing and electronic systems 
for spacecrafts. It is designed for being as modular as possible, allowing quick design while reducing the underlying 
costs through hardware hybrid integration. Although it has compact size and several restrictions, the MUSTANG 
architecture is widely adaptable to the design of avionics systems for medium and large spacecrafts.
2.1.2. Avionics architecture in China
Spacecraft avionics systems are derived from the integrated modular avionics system architecture, which has evolved 
through discrete, joint, integrated, and advanced integrated stages. At present, the DIMA architecture13-14 is the 
development direction for the next generation of avionics systems. In order to meet the development needs for avionics 
systems, Zhou et al.15 developed a resource scheduling algorithm for the DIMA system based on Time-Triggered 
Ethernet, aiming to achieve minimal end-to-end latency at the partition level. Liu and Wang.16 compared the features 
of distributed and centralized satellite avionics architectures. They also proposed a design strategy for hardware 
modularization and software componentization. Liu et al.17 proposed a distributed avionics system architecture and 
validated it in orbit. They also analyzed key technologies, including the parallel computing, distributed storage, and 
related space information network protocol. A centralized avionics architecture was proposed by Jiang et al.18 for 
CubeSats, which had been functioning well on the TianQi-2 satellite for more than three years. Chen et al.19 proposed 
an intelligent avionics architecture for low-cost and highly reliable spacecraft based on COTS technology. Future 
developments in spacecraft avionics system will focus on low cost, high performance, high intelligence, high 
integration and high reliability. He et al.20 introduced a spacecraft avionics system architecture and detailed its 
implementation strategy from three aspects: hardware modularization, service and protocol standardization, and 
software layering and componentization. This provided suggestions for the design of the spacecraft avionics system.
To enhance the generalization, intelligence, and networking level of satellite avionics system, Liu et al.21 proposed 
an avionics system architecture as shown in Fig. 5, which is based on high-speed and low-speed hybrid buses, 


--- Page 7 ---
·6 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
6
generalized hardware modules, and software components to form a set of standard functional units that can be selected 
on demand, so as to realize the ability of shelf-style assembly of avionics systems and task migration between various 
units. The system network bus consists of ARINC659, 1553B, and SpaceWire. The ARINC659 bus is used to 
communicate between hardware modules in the unit, the 1553B bus is used to ensure the reliable transmission of key 
data to other systems, and high-speed data interaction between the payload device and the platform is realized by the 
high-speed routing unit and the SpaceWire bus.
Fig. 5 Avionics architecture based on high and low speed hybrid networks.21
Liu et al.22 presented an avionics system design as illustrated in Fig. 6 to meet the demand for lightweight, high-
reliability, and high-performance computation in the manned lunar exploration spacecraft. According to the concept 
of network integration, universal computing, integrated execution, and software store-based loading, the three-level 
control structure of “system-subsystem-area execution” of traditional spacecraft is simplified to a two-level control 
structure of “unified system management-area execution.” Configuring numerous high-performance computers 
achieves system-level unified management, and TTE switches enable the integrated transmission of high-speed and 
low-speed mixed data. The execution service units, which are made up of standard hardware modules, are configured 
by area in accordance with the acquisition and driving needs.


--- Page 8 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 7 ·
Fig. 6 Avionics architecture of manned lunar exploration spacecraft.22
Gao et al. proposed a system architecture of a satellite intelligent computing platform to address the issue of difficult 
computing resource sharing and insufficient autonomous management capability of low-orbit satellites. The hardware 
architecture is shown in Fig. 723, and it primarily consists of the main control module, storage module, routing and 
switching module, and computational processing module. Among them, the main control module is used to realize 
state monitoring and comprehensive scheduling of other modules, while the routing and switching module facilitates 
data exchange between modules and data transmission between payloads. The computing processing module is 
composed of FPGA, CPU, GPU, NPU, etc. Through hardware virtualization technology, a unified computing resource 
pool is formed to provide intelligent computing power support for image processing, AI computing, etc. The various 
modules interact with each other through CAN, Ethernet, and so on.
Fig. 7 Hardware architecture of satellite intelligent computing platform.23
2.1.3. Analysis of research status
It can be deduced from the comparison between the aforementioned spacecraft avionics system architectures (Table 1) 
that the SPA, SAVOIR, OMAC4S, DIMA, and MUSTANG open modular system architectures exhibit the same design 
principles. They all aim at reducing the system costs while increasing the flexibility and maintainability of the 
spacecraft avionics system through standardized and modularized design. However, each type of architecture has a 
distinct focus in terms of many factors, including the design concepts, integration methods, and application scenarios. 
The SPA architecture simplifies the system integration for spacecrafts that require routine maintenance or updates. 
However, it may make the system design and verification more difficult because of its inter-module compatibility. The 
SAVOIR architecture, which emphasizes the design of open interfaces for space electronics and focuses on 
interoperability and information sharing among different systems, is the most suitable for complex and large-scale 
space missions requiring collaborative work. However, it may complicate the system integration in order to ensure the 
universality and compatibility of the underlying interfaces. By providing backup components, the OMAC4S 
architecture emphasizes modular design and component interchangeability, which may increase the complexity of the 
system while facilitating the quick replacement and maintenance of electronic devices. The DIMA architecture uses 
functional synthesis and physical distribution to increase the reliability of the system. This makes it more appropriate 
for the design of avionics systems of large and complex spacecrafts, at the expense of increasing the complexity of the 
system because of the contradiction between synthesis and distribution. The MUSTANG architecture provides 
solutions for next-generation space avionics systems by striking a compromise between the compactness of the 
spacecraft structure and its maximum functionality through a unified modular design without backplanes. However, 
the inter-module interactions make the system design and verification more complex. Among the aforementioned 
architectures, SAVOIR and DIMA are the most widely studied and adopted. They are the mainstream architectures 
currently used by NASA and ESA. Note that it is expected to widely use the MUSTANG architecture in future satellites.
Table 1 Comparison between avionics architectures of spacecrafts.


--- Page 9 ---
·8 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
8
Architecture
SPA
SAVOIR
OMAC4S
DIMA
MUSTANG
Name
Space Plug-and-
play Avionics
Space AVionics Open 
Interface aRchitecture
Open Modular Avionics 
Architecture for Space 
Applications
Distributed Integrated 
Modular Avionics
Modular Unified Space 
Technology Avionics
for Next Generation
Proposer
AFRL2-6
ESA7,8
Airbus, TTTech9
NASA10,11
NASA12
Year
2004
2007
2013
2018
2019
Advancement
Supports hot-
plugging and quick 
assembly, simplify 
maintenance and 
upgrades.
Data sharing and 
interoperability between 
different modules can be 
accomplished using 
modular and open 
architecture.
Its use for modular and 
open architecture makes 
the system flexible and 
emphasizes the reuse of 
hardware and software.
Distributed and 
integrated architecture 
with features of 
physical distribution 
and functional 
integration.
Open architecture and 
backplane-less modular 
design optimize the 
functionality in a very 
small size.
Openness
Support a wide 
range of devices 
and interfaces
Emphasizes the interface 
standardization and 
openness.
Support the use of open 
standards, and different 
modules can be 
seamlessly integrated.
Standardized 
interfaces support 
good openness.
Support standardized 
interfaces and protocols.
Reliability
Rigorous testing is 
required to ensure 
compatibility and 
reliability. 
Increase the reliability 
through standardized 
interfaces and redundant 
design.
Increase the reliability 
through standardized 
interfaces and redundant 
design.
High reliability due to 
distributed 
architecture and fault 
isolation.
Increase the reliability 
through standardized 
interfaces and 
redundant design.
Complexity
Complex design 
and verification
Complex system 
integration
Complex inter-module 
interaction
Complex initial 
system design
Complex system 
integration
Scalability
Easy to expand and 
maintain
Easy to expand and 
maintain
Easy to expand and 
maintain
Easy to expand and 
maintain
Easy to expand and 
maintain
Economy
High costs for 
initial design and 
validation.
Modularization and 
standardization facilitate 
the cost reduction.
Modularization and 
standardization facilitate 
the cost reduction.
High cost of initial 
system design. 
Modularization and 
standardization 
facilitate the cost 
reduction.
Scenario
Project of rapid 
design and rapid 
response.
Large project requiring 
multi-vendor integration 
and interoperability.
Highly modular and 
reusable project.
High-reliability 
project.
High-performance deep 
space exploration 
missions.
In China, the avionics system architecture of spacecrafts recently evolved from a centralized to a distributed 
networked direction. At present, it reached the stage of distributed integrated modularization, and relevant applications 
are actively explored in terms of plug-and-play technology. The main features of the avionics system architecture 
comprise the hardware modularity, protocol standardization, and software componentization. In the future, to meet the 
growing demands for computing intelligence, service diversification, and communication integration, spacecraft 
avionics systems will prioritize enhanced networking, intelligence, and autonomy while also improving the usability 
and operational convenience.
2.2. Typical spacecrafts
The design solutions for typical spacecraft avionics systems in the fields of deep space, manned, remote sensing, 
communication, navigation, and small satellites were investigated both domestically and internationally. In each field, 
the key traits and development trends of spacecraft avionics systems were studied and compared.
2.2.1. Foreign spacecrafts
In the manned spacecraft field, the information system of the International Space Station, which has over 100 
computers, is mainly responsible for data collection, command transmission, and network administration of payloads 
and platforms. The avionics system of each cabin uses a hierarchical bus and implements redundancy and 
generalization in computer design at every level according to functional needs. These features facilitate the system 


--- Page 10 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 9 ·
expansion and maintenance. For instance, the avionics system of the U.S. Experiment Module is arranged in three 
layers24-25. The control layer is the first layer that coordinates the management of the systems of the space station, the 
regional control layer is the second layer that handles the application tasks for the subsystems, and the user layer is the 
third layer that manages local data acquisition and control.
The U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) proposed the Blackjack program, which is a low-
orbit constellation providing continuous global coverage at very low cost. Pitboss is the on-board control unit having 
a high-speed processor and an encryption device. It is considered as the central component of the satellite, as illustrated 
in Fig. 826-27. The satellite can be software-defined to quickly and autonomously perform tasks such as target 
identification, on-orbit data processing, and data encryption. By collaborating with other satellites, it can handle long-
term autonomous operation of the constellation. In addition, the SmartSat satellite developed by Lockheed Martin 
adopts a software-defined architecture, which allows the users to add functions and assign new tasks. Moreover, it has 
adjustable satellite bandwidth, and it can support changing the satellite coverage area according to task requirements.
Fig. 8 Architecture of the Blackjack satellite.26,27 
In the communication field, satellites demonstrate a development trend of large-scale, serialization, and high cost-
effectiveness. The integrated, generalized, and flexible design of the device allows to decrease the expenses and 
production time. Typical satellite platforms include the LM2100 of Loma28 and the NeoSAT of ESA29. Through 
integrated and generalized design, the LM2100 platform reduced the components variation and production time by 
56% and 28%, respectively. The on-board computer and remote interface unit of its avionics systems are constructed 
using radiation-hardened PowerPC. The on-board computer can be modified on orbit, and the remote interface unit has 
1.5-2 times the integration degree of traditional devices. The NeoSAT platform includes Euro-StarNEO of ADS and 
SpaceBus of TAS, which have almost the same indices. This yields a 30% increase in the overall competitiveness 
compared with traditional platforms. It also has highly-integrated functionality and uses the all-electric propulsion 
technology to support heavier load weights. In the satellite internet field, more than 10000 Starlink satellites of the 
SpaceX company have been launched. The latest versions of these satellites have laser interplanetary links and optical 
imaging systems, which can perform flexible networking and autonomous debris avoidance in space.
In the navigation field, Galileo is a typical avionics system. The avionics system of the GIOVE-A satellite was 
launched in 2005. It is based on the GEMINI small satellite platform30. Its avionics system uses integrated, networked, 
and modularized design ideas, and the satellite is managed by a data management computer through CAN bus for data 
exchange. The next-generation Galileo system improves the accuracy of the signal and the autonomous operation 
capacity31. Satellites are equipped with laser interplanetary links to enhance the positioning and timing services of the 
system. In addition, the navigation payloads are distinguished by their high performance and safety, as well as their 


--- Page 11 ---
·10 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
10
configurable on-orbit functions. In order to form group intelligence and provide continuous services of high reliability, 
future navigation constellations will require satellites to cooperate and share resources.
In the deep space exploration field, the avionics system of the American Orion spacecraft adopts a distributed 
modular integrated system architecture. Fig. 932 illustrates the TTE bus serving as the system backbone network, 
connecting the remote unit and the on-board computer. This switched network architecture has high scalability, and 
new devices can join the system by only connecting to the switch33. With a high degree of system function synthesis, 
the on-board computer integrates several complex functions, including human-computer interface, autonomous heat 
control, autonomous energy control, and bus network management.
Fig. 9 Avionics system of Orion spacecraft.32 
In the field of small satellites, the Surrey Satellite Technology of the UK launched the NovaSAR-1 satellite, 
constructed using the SSTL300 platform34. It uses integrated, networked, and modularized design ideas, and it also 
adopted a mature and highly-reliable avionics architecture. The platform computer adopts a radiation-hardened 
processor and performs unified data management through CAN bus. Customized Field Programmable Gate Array 
(FPGA) is used to process payload data, and COTS components are widely used to cut costs.
2.2.2. Spacecrafts in China
In the manned spacecraft field, the information system of the Chinese space station adopts a layered network 
architecture based on modular computers. According to different types of information, its network is divided into 
system, communication, and payload networks, as shown in Fig. 1035. These kinds of networks are connected by 
gateways. The system network is based on the 1553B bus to perform system management of the platform. The 
communication network is based on Gigabit Ethernet, mainly designed for astronaut information service, and the 
payload network uses 10 Gigabit Ethernet to make the payload data management more straightforward. In addition, 
the information system of the manned spacecraft consists of highly-reliable computer, remote terminal, and 
communication bus, and it adopts several measures to satisfy the mission requirements, such as hardware redundancy 
and crucial data backup.


--- Page 12 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 11 ·
Fig. 10 Architecture of the China space station network.35 
In the remote sensing field, Yang et al.36 proposed an intelligent remote sensing satellite system that consists of 
remote sensing satellites, satellite-ground networks, and cloud service centers. This system mainly aims at constructing 
an on-orbit open software platform to facilitate the flexible access of third-party applications. This platform can also 
be used to acquire and process on-orbit images based on user needs. The information system of the Resource One 02D 
satellite37 constructed a high-speed and low-speed distributed network, including 1553B, LVDS, and TLK2711 buses. 
The low-speed network was mainly used to transmit platform information, while the high-speed network was used to 
transmit camera images and data between the underlying devices. Lei et al.38 argued that the avionics system of further 
remote sensing satellites would consist of a lightweight, generalized, and hierarchical software architecture as well as 
an open, intelligent, highly-integrated, and high-computing hardware architecture.
In the communication field, China's first global high-throughput broadband satellite, which is referred to as Asia-
Pacific 6D, developed a distributed avionics system having a central computer as its core39. It performed unified 
satellite management through 1553B bus, and solved the problem of heavy cable and many payloads by hardware 
integration and modularization, yielding a cable weight reduction of 50%. It increased the capacity of the satellite for 
on-orbit autonomous operation by adopting almost 20 software-defined functions, including autonomous sun tracking 
and autonomous temperature control. Based on the Dongfanghong V satellite platform, the Shijian 20 communication 
satellite40 was developed using modular, scalable, fully autonomous, and intelligent design concepts. It developed a 
distributed avionics system having a Central Management Unit as its brain, an Integrated Service Unit as execution 
terminal, and the 1553B bus as core network. Many autonomous functions, such as autonomous data management and 
autonomous fault disposal, are have been widely used. In addition, the successful launch of the satellites of the StarNet 
Constellation41 and the Qianfan Constellation42 paved the way for the deployment stage of China's satellite internet 
program.
In the navigation field, the BeiDou-3 satellite developed a hierarchical distributed avionics system having the Central 
Management Unit as brain43. This allowed to perform unified scheduling and integrated information processing of the 
constellation, as well as the provision of dependable and stable services for users. The system mainly comprises the 
Central Management Unit (CMU), Interface Service Unit (ISU), and Dynamic Path Routing Unit (DPRU), as 
illustrated in Fig. 1144. The CMU performs the platform management, including data management, the ISU provides 
telemetry acquisition, command output, power distribution, and other services for different types of devices, and DPRU 
mainly performs the information fusion of spacecraft-earth communication and interplanetary links. Through the 
highly-integrated and portable compactness design of the avionics system, the weight was reduced by more than 30% 
compared with the traditional method.


--- Page 13 ---
·12 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
12
Fig. 11 Avionics architecture for navigation satellites.44 
In the deep space exploration field, the avionics system of Chang'e-3 rover45 was the first successfully deployed on-
orbit avionics system, while the avionics architecture of Chang'e-4 lander46 combined centralized and distributed 
methods, and it was characterized by its unique modularity, fault tolerance, and ease of expansion. The avionics system 
of Chang’e-5 orbiter optimized the resource sharing by configuring power, information, and radio frequency device 
modules47. This was accompanied by the reduction of the weight by almost 40% compared with the traditional 
architecture. The avionics system of the "Zhu Rong" Mars rover48 in the "Tianwen" Mars spacecraft had many 
autonomous functions, including mission planning, navigation control, autonomous health management, and scientific 
exploration.
The Shijian 5 satellite is the first real small satellite in China49, which built and validated a distributed avionics 
architecture. The avionics system of the Beijing III satellite50 comprised the functions of many devices joined in one 
computer, serving as the satellite brain. The information management of the satellite was implemented by a CAN bus, 
yielding reduction of 60% and 20% in satellite quality and power consumption compared with the conventional 
approach, respectively. The architecture of the avionics system of small satellites has gradually evolved51 from 
distributed to centralized, due to the advancement of the information technology. The internal high-speed bus of the 
device, which communicates with the underlying data through various mediums, such as CAN, 1553B, and SpaceWire, 
takes the place of the external bus, and its architecture illustrates a networked, intelligent, and integrated development 
trend of high-performance.
2.2.3. Analysis of research status 
The avionics system plays a crucial role in the establishment of functions, performance increase, reliability 
improvement, and mission completion of spacecrafts. Typical spacecraft avionics systems in manned, remote sensing, 
communication, navigation, deep space, and small satellites are presented in Table 2. It can be seen that the features 
of the spacecraft avionics systems are mainly reflected in the following aspects:
(1) The system architecture is shifting towards distributed integrated modularity for complex spacecrafts and 
centralization for small satellites. However, they are also designed with higher functional density and computing power. 
For example, the International Space Station uses a layered network architecture to facilitate the system expansion, 
and its computers are highly integrated. The avionics systems of the Orion spacecraft and the Chang'e series lunar 
probe include physical distribution and functional integration. The avionics systems of small satellites, such as Beijing 
III and No-vaSAR-1, use centralized architectures, exhibiting tightly-integrated electronic devices.
(2) The novel hardware design of avionics systems emphasizes the modularity as well as the high performance and 
integration. The hardware devices are classified into a few types, such as on-board computers and remote units, and 
the system performs unified scheduling and resource management through switching networks. The modularization 


--- Page 14 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 13 ·
technology of the devices is more advanced, and standard modules are used to accomplish many tasks, such as 
telemetry acquisition, command output, drive control, heating control, and power distribution, which significantly 
reduces the variability of the hardware modules. Many technologies, including SoC and ASIC, are used to perform the 
integration and reach portable compactness of the devices. Consequently, their integration degree is increased by more 
than one time compared with the traditional methods. In addition, COTS components using radiation-hardened 
techniques are widely used to significantly increase the performance of the system and reduce the underlying costs.
(3) The software has lightweight, generic, and hierarchical architecture, using componentized design approaches. It 
adopts a layered system structure and a time-space partitioning operating system to facilitate the integration of multiple 
complex applications and the decoupling of hardware and software. It also enables the on-orbit software transplantation 
and software-defined functions through software componentized design, as well as the widespread use of 
standardization organization communication protocols, such as CCSDS. Complex system functions can be established 
by combining several standard protocols, leading to the development of a software design ecosystem that promotes 
multi-party collaboration and parallel design.
(4) The network architecture should support the hybrid transmission of high-speed and low-speed heterogeneous 
data. The CAN (or the 1553B bus) is a standard backbone network of the spacecraft avionics system, besides additional 
connections provided by other buses, including Ethernet, SpaceWire, and serial interfaces. The coexistence of multiple 
buses results in complex cable wiring and large system weight, which does not meet the portable compactness 
requirements of the spacecraft. Future spacecraft data buses should be flexible enough to expand and transfer data at 
high and low speeds. Time-deterministic Ethernet, such as the TTE or TSN bus, is a development trend that will be 
increasingly used.
(5) There is an increasing demand for the onboard high-performance computing and information processing capacity 
of spacecrafts. The on-orbit applications are becoming more complex, and therefore spacecrafts should be equipped 
with many features, such as on-orbit data management, mission planning, target recognition, and image processing. At 
present, the computing and storage capacities of spacecrafts are not able to meet the demand for intelligent and high-
speed information services that will be needed by users in the future. This presents a new challenge for high-
performance computing and information-processing capacities. As a result, many countries promote the upgrading of 
onboard computing capacities.
(6) The future spacecrafts will emphasize the intelligence and autonomy. Higher demands have been made on 
spacecraft autonomous operations due to the complexity of scientific missions, and avionics systems will increasingly 
be responsible for performing intelligent computing and autonomous management of tasks. To deal with the 
requirement of long-term on-orbit autonomous operation, spacecrafts should be able to accurately perceive changes in 
their own status and external environmental conditions by adopting novel technologies, including artificial intelligence, 
cloud computing, and software-defined technology. They should also be able to autonomously perform many tasks, 
such as mission planning, status monitoring, command execution, and autonomous on-orbit fault disposal.
(7) The development of future spacecrafts for remote sensing, communication, and navigation will require a 
cooperative constellation. The establishment of a cooperative constellation based on the principles of physical 
distribution, information integration, and intelligent cooperation provides the spacecraft with a longer measuring 
range52, broader coverage capacity, and higher positioning accuracy in the fields of remote sensing, communication, 
and navigation. To increase the overall performance of the system, the constellation spacecraft can provide flexible 
networking, cooperative sensing, and quick response to dynamic tasks by forming team intelligence through 
information exchange and task collaboration.
Table 2 Features and development trends of typical spacecraft avionics.


--- Page 15 ---
·14 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
14
Fields
Country/
organization
Typical 
spacecrafts
Key features
Development trends
USA, Russia, 
Japan, etc.
International 
Space 
Station24,25
Hierarchical bus architecture and 
generalized computer.
Manned
China
Chinese space 
station35
Its network includes system 
network, 
communication 
network, payload network, and 
generalized computer.
It adopts layered distributed network architecture, highly 
integrated electrical systems, and generalized 
computation.
USA
Blackjack 
spacecraft26,27
It 
uses 
software-defined 
architecture and has powerful 
computers facilitating the quick 
reaction.
Remote sensing
China
Resource One 
02D satellite37
Adopts a distributed information 
network using buses of different 
speeds.
Hardware architecture tends to be intelligent, highly 
integrated, and of high performance, while software 
architecture tends to be software-defined, generalized, 
and layered.
USA
LM2100 
platform28
The integration degree is 1.5-2 
times that of the traditional 
system, which is reached using 
integrated 
and 
generalized 
architecture.
ESA
NeoSAT 
platform29
Exhibits a 30% increase in 
overall 
competitiveness 
compared 
with 
traditional 
platforms, as well as highly-
modular payloads and very high 
integration level.
USA
Starlink satellite
It has laser interplanetary links 
and optical imaging systems, 
enabling flexible networking and 
avoiding 
autonomous 
space 
debris.
China
Asia-Pacific 6D 
satellite39
It uses a distributed avionics 
system having software-defined 
and 
autonomous 
operation 
capacities.
China
Dongfanghong 
V platform40
It uses a modular, scalable, fully 
autonomous, 
and 
intelligent 
distributed avionics system.
Communication
China
StarNet41 and 
Qianfan 
satellite42
It marks the beginning of the 
deployment stage of China's 
satellite internet program.
On the one hand, the satellite platform presents a large-
scale high-payload ratio development trend, which results 
in significantly increasing the load capacity. On the other 
hand, the low-orbit communication satellite Internet has 
become a hotspot. The Starlink is the world's leading 
system, and China also started to construct the satellite 
internet.


--- Page 16 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 15 ·
Fields
Country/
organization
Typical 
spacecrafts
Key features
Development trends
UK
Galileo 
satellite30
It uses a modular, networked, 
and integrated architecture to 
increase the accuracy of the 
signal 
and 
the 
ability 
to 
autonomously operate.
Navigation
China
BeiDou-3 
satellite43,44
It uses a hierarchical distributed 
system architecture that reduces 
the weight by more than 30%. It 
is lightweight and has high 
integration ability.
It is characterized by integration, networking, 
modularization, and configurability of on-orbit functions. 
Consequently, the future navigation constellations will be 
able to share resources and collaborate on work.
USA
Orion 
spacecraft32
It has a distributed modular 
integrated architecture and a 
flexible access based on TTE 
switching network.
Deep space 
exploration
China
Chang'e series 
of spacecraft45-47 
Its features include modularity, 
high fault tolerance, autonomy, 
and portable compactness.
The system architecture is distinguished by its physical 
distribution, modularity, and high fault tolerance.
UK
SSTL300
platform34
It adopts integrated, networked, 
and modular design, and widely 
uses COTS products.
Small satellite
China
Beijing III 
satellite50
The function is highly integrated, 
with 
information 
exchange 
facilitated by an internal bus.
It mostly uses centralized architecture and exhibits a 
trend of high integration, networking, intelligence, and 
commercialization.
3. Key technologies and trends
The aforementioned research status demonstrates that the avionics system, which serves as a spacecraft information 
center, played a crucial role in practical applications. However, some key technologies have room for improvements. 
Fig. 12 summarizes the evolution of key technologies in terms of network interconnection, high-speed bus, onboard 
computing, autonomous operation, and software-defined technology.


--- Page 17 ---
·16 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
16
 Fig. 12 Key technologies of spacecraft avionics.
3.1. Network interconnection technology
The spacecraft network interconnection technology performs network connection and information interaction between 
different spacecrafts as well as between the spacecraft and the ground. The three main types of spacecraft network 
interconnection protocol systems are the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), Common Carrier 
Switching Data System (CCSDS) protocol, and Delay/Disruption Tolerant Network (DTN) protocol53.
(1) TCP/IP protocol system
The TCP/IP protocol system started in the 1960s and then evolved into the most widely used computer 
interconnection protocol in the 1990s. The protocol stack consists of five layers: application, transport, network, data 
connection, and physical layers. Although this protocol exhibits simplicity and flexibility, it only provides "best-effort" 
services, and thus the high quality of data transmission cannot be ensured. The use of the IP technology in space 
communications started after the rapid development of terrestrial Internet. In 2002, NASA launched the OMNI project, 
which integrated terrestrial and space networks and performed all-IP interconnections from spacecraft to terrestrial 
users. Conducted on-orbit tests then demonstrated the possibility of using IP protocols54 in space missions.
(2) CCSDS protocol system
The CCSDS protocol system is designed for space communication. It includes a series of protocols from the data 
link layer to the application layer, while each one includes a certain number of protocols that can be combined, such 
as the Advanced Orbiting System (AOS) protocol and CCSDS File Delivery Protocol (CFDP) 55. Although the CCSDS 
protocol, which is has been applied and verified in more than 1000 spacecrafts, is more refined, it cannot be directly 
connected to the ground network. CCSDS undergone many adjustments and upgrades for space communication 


--- Page 18 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 17 ·
protocols in order to keep up with the rapid development of terrestrial Internet. The "IP over CCSDS" standard, released 
in 2012, allows to transmit IP data through space communication links.
(3) DTN protocol system
Fall et al. proposed the DTN protocol for the interplanetary Internet. In contrast to the conventional terrestrial 
Internet, this protocol has a bundle layer between the application and transport layers. This layer enables the 
interoperability of the underlying protocols, such as TCP/IP and CCSDS. Due to the fact that the DTN uses the store-
and-forward approach, Bundle Protocol (BP) in the Bundle layer can provide permanent storage and transport. In other 
words, data can be permanently stored on a DTN node56 until it is successfully sent to the next hop node through the 
BP protocol. Thus, this is the ideal solution for network communications between nodes in deep space exploration 
missions. NASA used it to build an interplanetary Internet. They then conducted many experiments demonstrating that 
the DTNs can successfully function over links of high latency and disruption.
China conducted many studies on CCSDS protocols. In order to unify the space network with the internal network 
of the spacecraft, the Beijing Institute of Spacecraft System Engineering integrated the subpacket remote control 
protocol, AOS protocol, space packet protocol, and asynchronous messaging protocol that are established in CCSDS 
and ESA's PUS standard. They also developed the "Fuxi" software architecture for the spacecraft, which is compatible 
with this architecture, and published the first CCSDS standard proposal of China57. Other organizations also 
significantly contributed to space networking technologies. For instance, Tsinghua University studied the use of the 
IPv6 protocols in space, and developed several space protocols, such as the Open Shortest Path First (OSPF+)58. 
Nanjing University also studied DTN protocols and developed a network simulation system.
In summary, the CCSDS protocol system is reasonably developed, and it has been widely used in the spacecraft 
field. However, it cannot be directly connected to the terrestrial Internet. The TCP/IP protocol is able to reduce the 
building and maintaining costs. However, it is unsuitable for deep space communication. The protocol system that 
combines TCP/IP with CCSDS has these two advantages. However, it cannot solve many problems, such as the 
dynamic routing in deep space communication. The DTN protocol system is proposed and used in deep space 
communication. It can integrate the CCSDS protocol stack and lower layer protocols (e.g., IP and AOS) in the TCP/IP 
protocol stack through the bundle layer. This allows to interconnect many heterogeneous networks, and provides 
advantages compared with network systems, in terms of compatibility and extensibility. The system that integrates 
CCSDS, TCP/IP, and DTN will be adopted in future spacecraft network protocols.
3.2. High-speed bus technology
The spacecraft performs the information exchange and data transmission between computer and terminal devices 
through a data bus. At present, CAN, 1553B, SpaceWire, Ethernet, TTE, and Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN) are 
data buses that can be typically used in spacecrafts. Note that CAN and 1553B are low-speed buses while the others 
are high-speed buses. Table 359-60 shows a comparison between these buses. The main features of the SpaceWire, TTE, 
and TSN buses are summarized as follows:


--- Page 19 ---
·18 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
18
(1) SpaceWire bus: It is a high-speed bus developed by ESA to be mainly used in spacecraft applications. It has a 
very flexible topology, point-to-point full-duplex communication ability, enhanced fault and error detection, exception 
handling, and high timing accuracy. SpaceFibre is the next generation of SpaceWire, which can transmit data at speeds 
of up to 1 Gbit/s. 
(2) TTE bus: It is a type of time-deterministic Ethernet created by the TTTech company. It incorporates time-
triggered modes to the event-triggered modes of conventional Ethernet, which allows to meet the low time-delay 
requirements of some control systems while remaining widely compatible with the current Ethernet standards. 
Applications for the TTE bus in spacecrafts can be tackled through a single bus network that combines high-speed and 
low-speed data transmission. The TTE bus has been successfully applied in the Orion spacecraft of the US. It also 
serves as the backbone network in the spacecraft of NASA’s Lunar Gateway.
(3) TSN bus: It is based on the Audio Video Bridging (AVB) technology, designed to perform deterministic real-
time Ethernet-based video/audio data transmission over Ethernet. Time-sensitive data transmission can be performed 
with very low end-to-end latency and transmission reliability through many methods, including clock synchronization 
and bandwidth reservation. The IEEE 802.1 working group renamed AVB to TSN61-62. Its current application scenarios 
are extended from audio and video data transmission to other fields, such as automotive, electronics, and spacecrafts.
For a long period of time, CAN and 1553B buses have been the primary data buses used in spacecrafts. However, 
due to their limited communication rates, they cannot handle the demands of real-time communication of the massive 
volumes of data that future spacecrafts will require. TTE buses have been used in many applications, including 
automobiles, aircrafts, and spacecrafts. They are considered a new network technology that combines high bandwidth, 
high reliability, and high certainty. The TTE bus can fulfill the demand for mixed transmission of data with different 
rates and levels of certainty on a single network. In addition, they can be used as the backbone bus selection form for 
the future spacecrafts. Similarly, due to its deterministic switching technology, which considers forward compatibility 
with current Ethernet switching, the TSN bus is easily accepted by the industry. As a result, it has started to be used in 
industry and will probably have a larger market in the future63. However, the relevant standards and products of the 
TSN bus are currently being developed and refined, and their suitability for use in spacecrafts should still be evaluated.
3.3. Onboard computing technology
The onboard computing technology serves as the foundation of the spacecraft to perform information services and on-
orbit processing. In addition, the space-grade processor is the core of reaching high-performance onboard computing. 
Table 4 shows the onboard computing technology using space-grade Central Processing Unit (CPU). NASA started 
conducting studies as early as the 1970s, which resulted in the development of the RAD750, RAD5545, and other 
Performance optimization with increased risc Performance Computing (PowerPC) architectures of the space-grade 
processor. The RAD750 processor64, which has 400 DMIPS of computing capacity, is widely used in all the types of 
NASA spacecrafts. The RAD5545 processor65, which integrates four processing cores and has floating-point 
Table 3 Comparison between spacecraft data buses. 
  Features
CAN
1553B
SpaceWire
Ethernet
TTE
TSN
Topology
Bus structure
Bus structure
Point to point/
switched 
structure
Point to point/
bus or switched 
structure
Point to point/
switched 
structure
Point to point/
bus or switched
structure
Node
number
≤128
≤32
No limit
No limit
No limit
No limit
Scalability
no
no
Expansion 
through
switch
Expansion through
switch
Expansion 
through switch
Expansion 
through switch
Rate
Max 1 Mbit/s
1-10 Mbit/s
2-400 Mbit/s,
1 Gbit/s with 
fiber
10 Mbit/s,
100 Mbit/s,
1 Gbit/s
100 Mbit/s,
1 Gbit/s
10 Gbit/s/,
25 Gbit/s
Maturity
Widely used
Widely used
Widely used
Widely used
Start using
Start using
Application 
scenarios
Automotive, 
electronics, 
spacecraft
Aviation, 
spacecraft
Aviation, 
spacecraft
Every field
Automotive, 
aviation, 
spacecraft
Automotive, 
electronics


--- Page 20 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 19 ·
computing capacity of almost 3.7 GFLOPS, was used for the Mars mission.
Since the 1990s, the ESA has developed 32-bit processors, including ERC32 and TSC69566 as well as 64-bit 
processors, such as GR712RC and GR740, forming the Scalable Processor Architecture (SPARC) series of space-
grade processors. The latter are widely used in space missions. GR712RC67 uses a dual-core LEON3-FT processor at 
100 MHz exhibiting a computing power of 200 MIPS, while GR74068 integrates four LEON4 processors at 250 MHz 
reaching a computing power of almost 1700 DMPS. NASA and ESA studied next-generation multicore space-grade 
processors to meet the high-performance computing requirements for different space applications. Since 2015, the 
Advanced RISC Machine (ARM) architecture processor has been the main focus for low-power development. In 2016, 
NASA initiated studies on high-performance spaceflight computing (HPSC) using the ARM architecture. The HPSC 
processor69 consists of eight radiation-hardened ARM Cortex A53 processors. In 2017, ESA launched the DAHLIA70 
program which is based on the ARM architecture. The latter is made of four radiation-hardened ARM Cortex-R52s, 
having a computing performance of almost 4 000 DMIPS. In 2021, ESA conducted a study on a space-grade processor 
based on the open RISC-V architecture, which is referred to as GR7xV.
NASA proposed a high-performance reconfigurable hybrid processor architecture based on FPGA, which is referred 
to as the SpaceCube71-72. The latter fully uses the functional advantages of different processors, such as CPU, DSP, 
and FPGA, and takes radiation-hardened measures for commercial processors. It also enables the high-speed 
interconnection through many interfaces, including PCI and SATA, significantly increasing the processing ability of 
scientific data through distributed computing among various heterogeneous resources. The SpaceCube architecture has 
been used in several spacecrafts73-74 that adopt radiation-hardened HPSC chips. The second-generation Spaceborne 
Computer-2 (SBC-2)75 was developed by Microsoft, HP, and NASA. It was launched to the International Space Station 
(ISS) in February 2021. At present, it is considered as the most powerful high-performance computing platform in 
space, and it can handle the real-time processing of on-orbit experimental data as well as space artificial intelligence. 
Furthermore, new computing technologies, such as brain-inspired computing76 and quantum computing77 should be 
considered in the future use of on-board intelligent computing.
BM3803 is a commonly used space-grade processor for spacecrafts in China. It has a main frequency of 100 MHz 
and an integer computing capability of 86 MIPS78. However, it has a low performance. The BM382379 space-grade 
processor is widely used and has made some progress in the field. It has a main frequency of 300 MHz and a floating-
point computing capacity of 69 MFLOPS. BM3883MARH80 is the most recent SPARC architecture octa-core 
radiation-hardened processor. It has a main frequency of 1 GHz, fixed-point and floating-point computing powers of 
16 GIPS and 32GFlops, respectively. It can fulfill the computing needs of different tasks in the future. In terms of 
ARM architecture, the Yulong 810A chip81 features a 4-core ARM A9 main processor, a co-processor with a Graphic 
Processing Unit (GPU), a Neural Network Accelerator engine (NNA) unit, a fixed-point processing power of 12 Tops, 
and a floating-point processing capacity of almost 64 GFlops. In conclusion, the processing capacity of space-grade 
processors in China is gradually increasing. In the future, they will be able to process a wider range of space 
applications.
Future onboard computing technology will mostly focus on moving from single-core to multi-core processors. On 
Table 4 Typical space-grade processors.
CPU name
Year
Country/
organizatio
n
Main frequency/MHz
CPU cores
Computing ability
Architecture
TSC695FEr
ror! Reference 
source not 
found.
1998
ESA
25
1
20DMIPS
SPARC
RAD750
2001
USA
200
1
400DMIPS
PowerPC
GR712RC
2009
ESA
100
2
200DMIPS
SPARC
RAD5545
2015
USA
466
4
3.7GFLOPS
PowerPC
GR740
2017
ESA
250
4
1700DMIPS
SPARC
DAHLIA
2019
ESA
1600
4
4000DMIPS
ARM
HPSC
2019
USA
800
8
14720DMIPS
ARM
BM3803Err


--- Page 21 ---
·20 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
20
the one hand, processor architectures, such as SpaceCube, will play a crucial role in meeting the high-performance 
application requirements of the upcoming scientific exploration missions for task planning, image compression, and 
processing. In addition, the onboard computer can further improve the functional density and increase the computing 
ability of avionics systems by coordinating the distribution computing ability of different heterogeneous computing 
resources. On the other hand, due to their low cost and high performance, the COTS products will become increasingly 
popular in space applications. It is expected to use high-performance COTS products for non-critical functions and 
space-grade chips for crucial functions, allowing to reach on-board high-performance computing of spacecrafts.
3.4. Autonomous operation technology
The autonomous operation technology of spacecrafts does not rely (or slightly rely) on external intervention, and it 
performs long-term, safe, and autonomous operation by sensing its own state and the external environment. It is able 
to autonomously schedule tasks, execute commands, monitor states, and reconfigure faults82. The autonomous 
operation of spacecraft includes the autonomous survival management, autonomous mission management, autonomous 
health management, and autonomous scientific exploration, as shown in Fig. 13.83
Fig. 13 Spacecraft autonomous operation technology.83
(1) Autonomous survival management: The spacecraft will be designed with the basic ability to maintain the regular 
operations of the platform by developing autonomous management systems for many functions, including energy, 
communication, attitude, and temperature control. Examples for ensuring high safety of the spacecraft platform include 
its necessity to have an autonomous energy management mode that allows it to automatically reduce the load power 
in the case of insufficient energy outside the TT&C area. The SMART-1 lunar probe, launched by ESA in 2003, should 
be able to automatically reconfigure itself in the event of a hardware failure, continuously operate for 10 days without 
ground assistance, and survive a two-month period when ground contacts are interrupted and the satellite is in safe 
mode.
(2) Autonomous mission management: The spacecraft performs mission planning and automatically conducts 
important flight events based on mission objectives. For the first time, the Deep Space-1(DS-1) spacecraft84-85 was able 
to perform autonomous mission management, mission planning, autonomous execution, and spacecraft status 
monitoring using the Remote Agent software system. The “new millennium” plan of NASA also considers the 
autonomous technology as a key development direction.
(3) Autonomous health management: In case of failure, the spacecraft detects its health state and performs 
autonomous disposal and recovery functions. The F-3586 aircraft, which was jointly developed by the United States 
and several other countries, is the most successful application of health management technology in use today. NASA 
designed the Livingstone system based on the transfer system model, they applied it to many spacecrafts, such as DS-
1, EO-1, X-34, and X-37, yielding satisfactory results. More precisely, it was able to efficiently and stably perform 
fault detection and diagnosis with minimal human assistance. ESA also summarized the hierarchical Failure Detection, 
Isolation and Recovery (FDIR) technology in several related projects. This technology has been used on spacecrafts, 
such as the Smart-1 probe87 and Spacebus 4000, enabling the autonomous on-orbit fault detection and reconstruction.
(4) Autonomous scientific exploration: Future space missions will emphasize the extent to which scientific 


--- Page 22 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 21 ·
objectives are met, and spacecrafts will conduct scientific exploration with greater autonomy while returning collected 
scientific data to the Earth, which will be analyzed by scientists. To increase the scientific return of the mission, future 
autonomous scientific exploration technologies will focus on science-oriented autonomous functions, such as 
processing scientific data, discovering scientific phenomena on orbit, and autonomously detecting unexpected 
scientific events88-91. Many studies are being conducted on new intelligent autonomous scientific exploration 
approaches, including deep learning techniques based on FPGA.
The Beijing Institute of Control Engineering as well as other research institutes and universities conducted studies 
on autonomous mission planning and autonomous health management92-93. Studies on autonomous mission planning 
and autonomous health management technology, have also been conducted for new remote sensing satellites and many 
other missions. Some of the technologies started to be implemented on orbit.
The future development trend of the autonomous operation technology for spacecrafts mainly comprises the 
following aspects: (A) As exploration objectives become more various and complex, the main trend of the autonomous 
operation technology is the transition from ground support to on-orbit autonomy, with an increasing demand for 
system-level autonomous operation. (B) The future autonomous operation technology will gradually shift from 
autonomous task management to autonomous scientific exploration, while emphasizing the extent to which scientific 
aims are met in exploration tasks. (C) New technologies, such as machine learning, will become crucial in 
strengthening the spacecraft autonomy, demonstrating promising applications in autonomous mission planning and 
autonomous health management.
3.5. Software-defined technology
The software-defined technology94-95 decouples hardware and software through advanced corresponding architectural 
design, and unifies the management and scheduling of the hardware by a software. The software-defined technology 
uses a software to control and manage hardware resources while also empowering hardware. This results in 
significantly increasing the flexibility, efficiency, and adaptability of the system. In the spacecraft field, the software-
defined technology can be divided into software-defined load, Software-Defined Network (SDN), and software-
defined satellite.
(1) Software-defined payload: In 2012, the NASA’s Space Communications and Navigation (SCaN) test platform 
project developed Software-Defined Radio (SDR) payloads and integrated radar imaging with communication by 
implementing SDR-based architecture for communication, navigation, and network software applications on the 
International Space Station. Eutelsat-Quantum96-97 is the world's first software-defined commercial communication 
satellite. It was developed in Europe in 2015. It uses the SDR technology to increase its communication ability in the 
full Ku-band. It could be reconfigured on-orbit in terms of many parameters, such as communication coverage, 
frequency, bandwidth, and power. The Space Inspire satellite98 of Thales Alenia space uses the software-defined 
payload technology to seamlessly transition between satellite video broadcasting and broadband connectivity services 
as required.
(2) Software-defined networking: It is a new network architecture based on the OpenFlow99 technology. In contrast 
to traditional networks, which have tightly coupled control and data plane architectures, the SDN technology100 isolates 
the complex message forwarding control logic from the routing device, and adopts a specific software to perform 
hardware forwarding control of data. Software-defined satellite networks use the SDN technology to separate the data 
from the control plane in satellite networks, so that the satellite should only perform basic forwarding and hardware 
configuration functions, while the ground control center handles other tasks, such as routing calculations and resource 
management.
(3) Software-defined satellite: In the Blackjack program, each node satellite is software-defined, and PitBoss101, 
which serves as the on-board control unit exhibiting efficient reconfigurable processing of payloads, is considered as 
a comprehensive application of software-defined payloads and software-defined satellites. The SmartSat of Loma is 


--- Page 23 ---
·22 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
22
another typical example of software-defined satellites. Similar to a smartphone, it allows the users to modify and add 
new applications following their needs. GSky-1 is a software-defined satellite owned by Vector Space (an American 
small solid rocket company), which incorporates a cloud-based intelligence layer102 based on its software-defined 
satellite technology, referred to as GalacticSky TM.
In terms of software-defined technology in China, the "software-defined satellite"103 uses the software radio 
technology to perform on-orbit functional reconfiguration of satellite payloads through software upgrades. In order to 
support the unified deployment various application software in the micro-cloud computing platform, the "Tianzhi" 
satellite104 adopts an open system architecture composed of intelligent computing engines, switches, and intelligent 
components, as shown in Fig. 14105. The program can be downloaded and updated at any time, and various customized 
services are available. Thus, progress has been made in many aspects, including space supercomputing platforms, 
onboard operating environments, and software-defined satellites. Xing et al.106 proposed a software-defined spacecraft 
system architecture, in which various devices at the equipment layer can be connected to the system through 
reconfigurable interface units to achieve plug-and-play.
Software-defined payloads perform functional reconfiguration of payloads on a shared hardware platform using 
software-defined107 systems. At present, the latter is mostly based on communication payloads, and it relies on the 
development of software-defined radios. In the future, software and algorithms will play a crucial role in increasing 
the capacity and performance of payloads, and a gradual trend toward interface standardization, hardware configuration 
minimization, and software function maximization is expected. The software-defined satellite and software-defined 
network technology has more slowly developed compared with the software-defined payload technology. The 
software-defined satellite technology reconfigures on-orbit functions to be able to perform various functions while 
increasing the overall satellite efficiency. However, this increases the cost and complexity of the satellites. The 
software-defined network technology has not been used in space yet. However, it is expected to become an essential 
factor in the interconnection of future spacecrafts due to its ongoing development and widespread ground-based 
applications.
Fig. 14 Software-defined satellite system architecture.105 
4. Roadmap of spacecraft avionics technology
Based on the previously mentioned analysis of the research status of spacecraft avionics systems and related key 
technologies, and taking into account the maturity and mission requirements, a roadmap for the development of the 
spacecraft avionics technology was developed in two stages: 2025-2030 and 2030-2035. The details of this roadmap 
are illustrated in Fig. 15. In terms of system architecture, the first stage develops a distributed integrated modular 


--- Page 24 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 23 ·
system architecture characterized by functional integration and physical distribution, while the second stage adopts a 
general open system architecture, which is characterized by on-demand service and random access. In terms of network 
interconnection technology, the first stage is based on the coexistence of the IP, CCSDS, and DTN protocols to enable 
the interconnection of spatially heterogeneous networks, while the second stage relies on the convergence of the IP, 
CCSDS, and DTN protocols to enable the interconnection of networks across planetary domains. In addition, in terms 
of high-speed bus technology, the first stage combines SpaceWire, Ethernet, and TTE buses to establish a satellite 
network, while the second stage uses TTE and TSN buses. Moreover, in terms of the onboarding computing technology, 
the first stage consists of a hybrid heterogeneous computing strategy based on multi-core processors, while the second 
stage uses commercial servers and many-core processors to establish brain-inspired computing and space 
supercomputing. As for the autonomous operation technology, the first stage enables the autonomous survival 
management, autonomous mission management, and autonomous health management of the spacecrafts, while the 
second stage provides autonomous scientific exploration and on-orbit autonomous decision-making of spacecraft. 
Moreover, in terms of the software-defined technology, the first stage allows to use the software-defined payload and 
software-defined network technology, while the second stage enables the use of the software-defined spacecraft 
technology and also yields the real on-orbit functional reconfiguration of the spacecraft.
Fig. 15 Roadmap of the spacecraft avionics technology.
5. Intelligent avionics system architecture
5.1 Concept of intelligent avionics system
Based on the above-mentioned spacecraft avionics system architecture, as well as the development status, key 
technologies, and development trends of typical spacecraft avionics systems, this paper proposes the concept of an 
intelligent avionics system for future spacecraft applications, as shown in Fig. 16. The system will take the intelligent 
supercomputing platform as the core, and through the ground cloud support system and the edge intelligent spacecraft, 
it will build an intelligent spacecraft information system integrated with the satellite and the ground, with the 
capabilities of open and sharing, cloud-edge collaboration, fusion decision based on inference and rules, intelligent 
autonomous operation, and functional reconstruction. The ground cloud support system includes laser stations, 
microwave stations, distributed data centers, operation management centers, ground cloud centers, etc. The edge 
intelligent spacecraft is a constellation system composed of relay satellites and spacecraft. Key features are described 
as follows:


--- Page 25 ---
·24 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
24
Fig. 16 Concept of intelligent avionics system.
(1) Open and sharing: Using the principles of hardware modularization and software componentization, an open and 
shared intelligent avionics system with a uniform standard is created. The system includes several devices, such as 
computing unit, communication unit, energy unit, intelligent unit, control unit, load unit, and so on. These devices are 
realized by standardized hardware modules and software components through shelf-type assembling, with the feature 
of physical distribution and functional integration. These devices are connected by high-speed Ethernet, which can 
realize plug-and-play and flexible access of different devices. Cross-node mutual control between spacecraft is possible 
thanks to the high level of standardization in hardware and software architecture. For example, ground workers can 
remotely manage the lunar robot across many spacecraft by specifying simply the control object, while the spacecraft 
handle the routing and data transfer autonomously.
(2) Cloud-edge collaboration: By collaborating between the powerful inference capability of the large model on the 
ground cloud support system and the edge intelligent spacecraft, the problem of limited on-orbit computing resources 
of spacecraft under complex application scenarios is solved. Firstly, the complex tasks are decomposed according to 
the application scenarios, and the tasks with high real-time and environment-related requirements are handed over to 
the spacecraft for on-orbit processing, while the complex analysis tasks are turned over to the large ground model for 
processing. Secondly, the spacecraft collects real-time data, sends the results processed by the on-orbit lightweight 
model to the large ground model, which uses its own massive data and the received results to continuously conduct 
model training and inference analysis, and then sends the analysis results to the spacecraft, realizing the cloud-edge 
cooperative interaction of the spacecraft data. Finally, the large ground model can update and optimize the lightweight 
model in the spacecraft intelligent unit based on the spacecraft's on-orbit operation state, improving the accuracy of its 
on-orbit inference.
(3) Fusion decision based on inference and rules: The spacecraft employs the model inference method of on-orbit 
lightweight model and large ground model collaboration, together with traditional rules, to make intelligent decisions 


--- Page 26 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 25 ·
on complicated tasks. The large ground model has powerful model training, general inference, and knowledge updating 
capabilities, and after pruning and distilling the key inference logic and knowledge of the large model, the on-orbit 
lightweight model is generated and deployed on the spacecraft's intelligent unit so that the model can run on the 
resource-constrained intelligent unit. The lightweight model processes on-orbit data in real time and autonomously 
performs tasks such as spacecraft health management. At the same time, it sets clear rules for the spacecraft’s safety-
critical systems and adopts an inference mechanism that integrates model inference methods and traditional rules when 
making decisions to ensure the safe and stable operation of the spacecraft. For example, if the model detects a fault in 
the computing unit, the spacecraft would autonomously switch the computing unit from the main module to the backup 
module or migrate the task to other units according to the rules.
(4) Intelligent autonomous operation: In terms of autonomous survival management, machine learning algorithms 
are used to conduct real-time monitoring of key survival parameters such as energy and temperature of spacecraft, 
autonomously adjusting energy and thermal resources to a balanced state to ensure spacecraft safety. In terms of 
autonomous mission management, deep learning algorithms are adopted to identify mission scenarios, and when 
combined with rules, mission planning and resource allocation strategies are autonomously generated to improve 
mission execution efficiency. In terms of autonomous health management, on-orbit lightweight models are used to 
monitor the spacecraft's operating status in real time, warn of probable malfunctions, and take countermeasures 
autonomously. In terms of autonomous scientific exploration, algorithms such as machine vision and deep learning are 
used to analyze exploration data, discover interesting scientific phenomena, and autonomously adjust exploration 
strategies. When necessary, reasoning support is requested from large ground models to achieve efficient study of 
scientific targets.
(5) Functional reconfiguration: Through the integration and application of software definition, resource 
virtualization, dynamic function loading, and other technologies, the spacecraft's on-orbit mission migration, intelligent 
resource management, and function reconfiguration are realized. Specifically, software-defined technology abstracts 
and virtualizes hardware resources into a unified resource pool, resulting in the decoupling of hardware and software, 
allowing hardware resources to be controlled and managed as if they were software. Resource virtualization technology 
divides physical resources into several independent virtual resource units, which facilitates efficient utilization and 
isolation of resources and provides a foundation for task migration and function reconfiguration. Dynamic function 
loading technology enables on-orbit real-time loading and unloading of functional modules, allowing the spacecraft to 
update and reconstruct its functions in real time as mission changes occur.
5.2 Architecture of intelligent avionics system
The architecture of an intelligent avionics system for spacecraft is shown in Fig. 17, in which the standardized hardware 
modules are assembled on demand to form functional units, the general software components are assembled on demand 
to form software, and the communication protocols follow the unified standard so that the hardware and software can 
be assembled on demand, the devices can be plug-and-play, the software can be upgraded, and the functions can be 
reconfigured on-orbit. The hardware module is mainly divided into three types: computing and storage, network 
interconnection, and input/output interface, and these modules interact with each other through the backplane interface 
within the unit.


--- Page 27 ---
·26 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
26
Fig. 17 Architecture of intelligent avionics system.
(1) The computing and storage type comprises general processor modules, data storage modules, AI processing 
modules, and so on, which enable task management, data storage, and intelligent computing capabilities.
(2) The network interconnection type includes bus communication modules, intra-satellite high-speed switching 
modules, inter-satellite network routing modules, and so on, which enable intra- satellite and inter-satellite information 
interaction.
(3) The input/output interface type includes power supply module, power distribution module, telemetry module, 
command module, heat control module, channel gateway module, power drive module, high-speed interface module, 
and multifunctional payload module. Among them, the channel gateway module realizes low-speed/high-speed 
communication with other spacecrafts. The high-speed interface module transmits data at high speeds by TTE or TSN 
bus, while the multipurpose load module configures a wide range of loads through hardware sharing and software 
defining.
Among them, the general processor module runs on avionics system software, which is designed using layering and 
componentization principles and is divided into five layers: the hardware resource layer, the operating system layer, 
the virtualized layer108-109, the application support layer, and the application layer. The main functions of each layer 
are described as follows:
(1) Hardware resource layer: It is the operating entity of system functions and services, including a variety of 
hardware resources such as computing, storage and network. Specifically, computing resources are made up of high-
performance heterogeneous computing units like CPU, FPGA, GPU, NPU, and so on.
(2) Operating system layer: It includes real-time operating system, BSP (board-level support package) and hardware 
drivers, etc., and it supports the kernel, system libraries, and tool chain. Different standardized operating systems can 
be selected for various hardware resources.


--- Page 28 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 27 ·
(3) Virtualized layer: It provides abstracted software interfaces to various hardware resources to form a unified 
virtual resource pool, breaks physical resource isolation by partitioning and combining virtual resources, and provides 
interfaces such as task scheduling and resource management for the application support layer to improve resource 
management flexibility.
(4) Application support layer: It mainly deploys software components such as resource scheduling, task management, 
network management, security management, and other software components, as well as intelligent algorithm libraries 
such as failure prediction models, AI lightweight models, path planning models, etc., providing a large number of 
generalized services to the application layer and supporting the scheduling of virtualized resources.
(5) Application Layer: It runs a variety of partitioned applications, such as heat management, energy management, 
task planning, data management, intelligent inference, and so on, and allows for rapid deployment and dynamic loading 
of third-party software store applications.
6. Application scenario
The Moon and cislunar space became popular destinations for deep space exploration110-111. Many countries, including 
the US and Japan, proposed plans for lunar communication and navigation. The former is also promoting the 
establishment of LunarNet112 through the Artemis program, and ESA released the Moonlight program113-114, while 
expecting to develop a sustainable lunar communication and navigation system by 2027. The Japan Aerospace 
Exploration Agency (JAXA) proposed a lunar navigation satellite system for the lunar south pole mission. Qiao et al.115 
proposed the concept of cislunar space cloud network by establishing a cross-domain integrated cislunar space network. 
Fig. 18 shows a schematic diagram of another cislunar space network that includes the Earth, Moon, and cislunar space 
domains. Together with other satellites, the backbone network of satellites in the Earth GEO orbit, the cislunar space 
Lagrange point, and the circumlunar orbit form the generalized cislunar space network, which provides many crucial 
functions, such as location navigation, data communication, and information services to cislunar space users. Key 
avionics technologies can be applied in the cislunar space network system.
Fig. 18 Schematic diagram of cislunar space network.
(1) Data communication: Telemetry data should be shared and delivered inside the spacecraft and between 
spacecrafts. There are different types of data, such as state telemetry, control instructions, and other low-speed data 
that require low latency and high reliability, as well as video, test data, and other large-volume data that do not require 
high real-time performance. The avionics system performs the mixed transmission of heterogeneous data within the 


--- Page 29 ---
·28 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
28
spacecraft through high-speed buses, designs suitable network protocols using the network interconnection technology, 
and then performs the interconnection of spacecrafts in different network domains through spacecraft and spacecraft-
terrestrial microwave or laser links, enabling the information sharing between cross-domain spacecrafts.
(2) Location navigation: The location navigation functions in cislunar space are divided into three regions: the Earth 
region, the Moon region, and cislunar space116. The services in the Earth region are advanced, and those in the lunar 
region can be accomplished by referring to the Earth region model and establishing circumlunar navigation 
constellations. This can be done by the users of the cislunar space by conducting spacecraft measurements and adopting 
external high-precision observation techniques. Future studies should emphasize cislunar cooperative Positioning, 
Navigating, and Timing (PNT) design, multi-source fusion autonomous navigation, and software-defined technologies. 
The latter are made possible through avionics technologies, such as deep-space network interconnection, high-
performance onboard computing, software-defined payloads, and satellite autonomous operation.
(3) Information service: This function mainly includes space situational awareness, space environment monitoring, 
and scientific exploration. In order to perform space situational awareness and environment monitoring, mixed 
heterogeneous resources are adopted to conduct high-performance onboard computing in the design of satellite 
avionics for the cislunar space network system. This system consists of a deep-space information infrastructure, which 
should be able to perform various autonomous operations, including survival management, mission management, 
health management, and scientific exploration. By relying on software-defined payload, software-defined network, and 
software-defined satellite technologies, the service capacity of the payloads can be enriched. In addition, on-orbit 
reconfiguration of payload functions can be performed by equipping it with various payloads.
7. Challenges and development suggestions
7.1. Challenges
The existing spacecraft avionics system cannot fulfill the networked, intelligent, and autonomous requirements of 
future missions. Its application is restricted by many challenges, such as the inconsistent system architecture117-118, 
difficult interconnection, insufficient on-orbit computing, and low intelligence.
(1) Inconsistent system architecture
At present, spacecraft avionics systems are designed independently from their own requirements due to the lack of 
uniform standards. This leads to various avionics system architectures, weak expandability, less functional integration 
between subsystems, and difficulties in implementing software componentization and hardware modularization in 
spacecraft design. Due to the rocket capacity and platform resource constraints, deep space exploration missions 
require lightweight and compact avionics systems. Therefore, integrated consideration should be taken at the hardware, 
software, and protocol levels in order to establish a generalized, open, flexible, and scalable architecture for an 
intelligent avionics system. This could drastically solve the problem of tightly coupled hardware and software.
(2) Difficult interconnection
The spacecraft should have interconnection networking abilities, and it should be supported by the space-ground 
integrated network communication protocol in order to facilitate the real-time information transmission and 
collaborative work with other spacecrafts. At present, the main problems can be summarized as follows: lack of 
uniformity protocols, tight coupling of software and hardware, complexity and wide range of network interconnections, 
numerous intra-, inter-, and terrestrial interfaces, independent design of different spacecraft network protocols, and 
difficulty in supporting future functions (e.g., cooperative operation and flexible multi-spacecraft networking). This 


--- Page 30 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 29 ·
yields a significant challenge, which consists of ensuring that every spacecraft and subsystem conducts product in 
accordance with standardized interfaces and protocols.
(3) Insufficient on-orbit computing
The ability of the spacecraft to autonomously execute algorithms, such as mission planning and network 
management, is a new challenge faced by the processing capacity of the onboard computing platforms. This could be 
intensified with the future application scenario of large volumes of data and high algorithmic complexity in on-orbit 
information processing. The computing and storage ability of the existing spacecrafts is far from meeting the demand 
on orbit, and the dispersion of the underlying computing resources makes the support of many functional requirements 
(e.g., intelligence and autonomous management) more difficult. Studies on the high-performance onboard computing 
technology are required to enhance the on-orbit computing and increase the information processing capacity of the 
spacecraft.
(4) Low intelligence
At present, the spacecraft operation highly depends on ground intervention. The support for on-orbit information 
services and autonomous decision-making capacity is still very limited. In addition, the level of intelligence and 
autonomy is moderate, and most of them are still ground-based. Because of these factors, the demand for highly-
reliable long-term autonomous operation of spacecrafts cannot be met. Therefore, it is crucial to break through the on-
orbit autonomous management technology of spacecrafts and increase the intelligence level for autonomous decision-
making and autonomous health management.
In summary, the development of avionics systems for spacecrafts should overcome many challenges, including 
inconsistent system architecture, difficult interconnection, insufficient on-orbit computing, and low intelligence level.
7.2. Development suggestions
The following development suggestions are provided to solve the aforementioned problems:
(1) Promoting the application of intelligent avionics system architecture
By referring to important space electronic system architectures, such as SAVOIR and DIMA, this paper proposes a 
generalized open intelligent avionics system architecture for spacecraft, the application of which should be accelerated. 
The architecture realizes the resource distribution and function synthesis of the avionics system. The system design 
follows a uniform specification, and modules having the same function can be compatible with and replace one another. 
Many technologies, including the Micro Electro-mechanical System (MEMS) and System in Package (SIP), led to 
advancements in the standardization of spacecraft modules, portable compactness design, high functional integration, 
and rapid assembly. This allowed to further reduce the cost of the spacecraft and solve problems of tightly coupled 
software and hardware, as well as difficult interconnection, gradually developing an intelligent avionics system that 
can quickly respond to the needs of the users.
(2) Building an integrated cross-domain interconnection network on a wide spatial and temporal scale
Spacecraft networks that rely on the ground for operation and are disconnected from one another can no longer 
match the users' demands for real-time and comprehensive services. On the one hand, the future spacecraft network 


--- Page 31 ---
·30 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
30
will have a higher-speed network bus, allowing to satisfy the large-capacity and high-real-time data transmission needs 
of underlying missions. On the other hand, the development of a distributed and cooperative constellation system is 
crucial in the fields of navigation, communications, and remote sensing. It is expected that the future spacecraft 
networks will perform the interconnection of resources in the air, sky, earth, sea, and even deep space. They will 
perform interoperability and resource sharing between many nodes, applications, and users in the cross-domain 
heterogeneous network. In addition, they will provide users with personalized subscriptions of efficient services 
through effective acquisition, coordination, transmission, and integration of multidimensional information.
(3) Enhancing the on-orbit computing and increasing the information processing ability of the spacecraft
With the rapid growth in demand for various applications and functions, spacecrafts should perform various tasks, 
such as mission planning, image processing, health management, and multi-satellite collaboration. At present, the 
processing capacity of the spacecraft on-board computers is significantly affected by the need for processing and 
storing massive heterogeneous telemetry data. To solve the problems of massive data and resource limitation in on-
orbit information processing, the key technologies of on-orbit intelligent information processing, high-performance 
distributed computing, and large-capacity storage should be applied and improved. To enhance the on-orbit information 
processing and increase the computing capacity of the aircraft for future complex missions, a high-performance on-
board information processing platform should be established using heterogeneous resources such as CPU, GPU, Digital 
Signal Processor (DSP), FPGA, and NPU.
(4) Emphasizing the importance of commercial off-the-shelf components in space systems
COTS products will have a wide range of applications since their processing capacity is much higher than that of 
conventional on-board processors. To fully use advanced technologies and volume products developed by commercial 
innovation and investment, high-performance COTS products in non-critical spacecraft parts should be studied and 
adopted. This is also an efficient means for reducing the spacecraft costs, boosting the payload ratios, ensuring the 
spacecraft technological progress, and improving the market competitiveness. Therefore, to increase the reliability of 
the component in the space environment, the use of COTS products in space still requires a systematic study on space 
environment tests, component screening, and fault-tolerant design. The reliability analysis, validation, and evaluation 
of COTS products should also be strengthened.
(5) Improving the autonomous management and increasing the intelligence level of the spacecraft
Traditional spacecraft operation and management based on ground stations face many challenges, such as excessive 
resource consumption and delayed fault disposal. This is mainly due to the continuously increasing number of 
spacecrafts and the complexity of the future operations. Due to their properties, such as long flight distances, very large 
communication delays, and unknown space environment, deep space probes require a high level of autonomy. Key 
technologies, including autonomous mission planning, autonomous health management, and on-orbit autonomous 
decision-making for spacecrafts, will be studied using novel technologies, such as artificial intelligence and cloud 
computing. This will contribute to the on-orbit autonomous management capacity of the spacecrafts, allowing them to 
accurately detect changes in themselves and the external environment when dealing with unexpected factors, and to 
autonomously complete their flight missions and remove faults.
8. Conclusions
This paper reviews the architecture of typical spacecraft avionics systems and the state of their development. In terms 
of architecture, spacecraft avionics systems mainly follow the development trend of combining integration and 
distribution, while there is a growing need for intelligent autonomous management capacities, on-orbit high-
performance computing, and information processing. The key technologies involved in avionics, such as network 


--- Page 32 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 31 ·
interconnection, high-speed bus, onboard computing, autonomous operation, and software-defined technology, as well 
as their features and potential future development trends, are thoroughly analyzed.
Based on the drawn conclusions, an intelligent avionics system architecture for future spacecraft applications is 
proposed, suggestions for the development of future spacecraft avionics systems are provided. Future work will 
emphasize accelerating the application of intelligent avionics system architecture, establishment of an integrated cross-
domain interconnection network on a large spatial-temporal scale, increase of the on-orbit computing and information 
processing ability, full use of COTS products in space systems, and improvement of autonomous management and 
intelligence of spacecrafts. The aforementioned measures will significantly improve the networked, intelligent, and 
autonomous level of the spacecraft avionics systems, and it will serve as a useful guide for the long-term advancement 
of the spacecraft avionics technology.
Acknowledgement
This study was jointly supported by the civil aerospace foreign technical cooperation project of China (No. ZB02) and 
the civil aerospace pre research project of China (No.D030102).
References 
1.
Avtin IV, Baburov VI, Ponomarenko BV, et al. Principles of integrated airborne avionics. Singapore: Springer 
aerospace technology, E-Publishing Inc.; 2021.p.1-20.
[2] Lin CW, Chen G, He SS, et al. Overview of space plug-and-play avionics interface technology. 2020 international 
conference on computer engineering and application (ICCEA). Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2020.
[3] Martin M, Summers J, Lyke J. AFRL plug-and-play spacecraft avionics experiment (SAE). 2012 IEEE aerospace 
conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2012.
[4] Martin M, Lyke J. Modular open network ARCHitecture (MONARCH): transitioning plug-and-play to aerospace. 
2013 IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2013.
[5] Mitchell C, Rexroat J, Rawashdeh SA, et al. Development of a modular command and data handling architecture 
for the KySat-2 CubeSat. 2014 IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2014.
6.
AIAA. Space plug-and-play architecture standards development guidebook. Reston: AIAA; 2013. Report No.: 
AIAA G-133-1-2013.
[7] Nannipieri P, Dinelli G, Sterpaio LD, et al. Next-generation high-speed satellite interconnect. Cham: Springer; 
2021.p.1-21.


--- Page 33 ---
·32 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
32
8.
He XW, Li JH, Bai F, et al. Avionics system architectures for software-defined spacecraft. Mobile wireless 
middleware, operating systems and applications (MOBILWARE 2022). Cham: Springer; 2023.p.150-151.
[9] Herpel HJ, Schuettauf A, Willich G, et al. Open modular computing platforms in space—Learning from other 
industrial domains. 2016 IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2016.
10. Internationaldeepspacestandards.com. International avionics system interoperability standards[Internet]. 
Washington, D.C.; 2019 [cited 2025 Nov 15]. Available from: https://internationaldeepspacestandards.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/02/avionics_baseline_final_3-2019.pdf.
11. NASA. An open avionics and software architecture to support future NASA exploration missions. Washington, 
D.C.: NASA; 2018. Report No.: JSC-E-DAA-TN56993.
[12] Green C, Haghani N, Hernandez-Pellerano A, et al. MUSTANG: A workhorse for NASA spaceflight avionics. 
2023 IEEE 9th international conference on space mission challenges for information technology (SMC-IT). 
Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2023.
[13] Robati T, Gherbi A, Mullins J. A modeling and verification approach to the design of distributed IMA architectures 
using TTEthernet. Procedia Comput Sci 2016; 83:229–36.
[14] Wang HC, Niu WS. A review on key technologies of the distributed integrated modular avionics system. Int J 
Wirel Inf Netw 2018;25(3):358–69.
[15] Zhou X, Xiong HG, He F. Hybrid partition- and network-level scheduling design for distributed integrated 
modular avionics systems. Chin J Aeronaut 2020;33(1):308–23.
16. Liu S, Wang HM. Overall design technology of integrated electronic system configuration for next generation 
satellites. Space Electronic Technology 2015;12(6):90-4[Chinese].
17. Liu WW, Cheng BW, Wang LY, et al. Design of distributed spacecraft avionics system. Spacecraft Engineering 
2016(6):86-93[Chinese].
[18] Jiang LX, Wang L, Li MX, et al. Design of onboard avionics based on commercial off-the-shelf parts for TianQi-
2 nanosatellite. J Spacecr Rockets 2024;61(4):1114–23.
[19] Chen CJ, Yin YB, Yang J, et al. Discussion on the design of low-cost spacecraft avionics based on COTS 
technology. 2024 7th international conference on electronics technology (ICET). Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2024.
20. He XW, Li N, Xu Y, et al. Requirements system analysis of intelligent spacecraft avionics and discussion of its 
architecture. Spacecraft Engineering 2018;27(4):82-89[Chinese].
21. Liu WW, Yu JH, Mu Q, et al. Design and implementation of an open modular onboard avionics system. Journal 
of Telemetry, Tracking and Command 2023;44(3):53-60[Chinese].


--- Page 34 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 33 ·
22. Liu Y, Yan ZW, Jia YC, et al. Design of manned lunar spacecraft avionics system structure. Journal of 
Astronautics 2024;45(2):314-324[Chinese].
23. Gao JX, Xu ZP, Ding WH, et al. Autonomous control architecture of satellite intelligent computing platform. 
Space-Integrated-Ground Information Net-works 2024;5(4):85-94[Chinese].
24. Taylor C, Konig H, Schlossstein U. Standard payload computer for the international space station. ESA bulletin-
european space agency 1998;93: 10-18.
[25] Fletcher DP, Alena R. A scalable, out-of-band diagnostics architecture for international space station systems 
support.2003 IEEE aerospace conference proceedings. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2003.
26. DARPA. Blackjack pit boss broad agency announcement. Arlington: DARPA tactical technology office; 2019. 
ReportNo.:HR001119S0012.
27. Eoportal.org. Blackjack program of DARPA (Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency)[Internet]. [cited 
2025 
Nov 
15].Available 
from: 
https://www.eoportal.org/ftp/satellite-
missions/b/Blackjack_010222/Blackjack.html.
28. Krebs, G. D. Lockheed Martin: A2100/LM-2100[Internet]. [cited 2025 Oct 10]. Available from: https://space.
skyrocket.de/doc_sat/lockheed_a2100.htm.
29. Pablo R. Satellite projects in ESA ARTES programmer. Proceedings of the space congress proceedings. Paris: 
ESA; 2016.p.1-13.
[30] Liddle J, Edge L, Tondryk W, et al. GIOVE-A and GMP: SSTL’s MEO and GEO satellite family-first in-orbit 
test results. 24th AIAA international communications satellite systems conference. Reston: AIAA; 2006.
[31] Giorgi G, Kroese B, Michalak G. Future GNSS constellations with optical inter-satellite links. Preliminary space 
segment analyses. 2019 IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2019.
[32] Timmons K, Coderre K, Pratt WD, et al. The orion spacecraft as a key element in a deep space gateway. 2018 
IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2018.
[33] Baggerman C, McCabe M, Verma D. Avionics system architecture for the NASA orion vehicle. SAE technical 
paper series. SAE Internationa; 2009.
34.  Zhou ZS, Parker A, Brindle L, et al. Initial NovaSAR-1 data processing and imagery evaluation. IGARSS 2020-
2020 IEEE international geoscience and remote sensing symposium. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2020.
[35] Guo ZW, Zhang X, Gao YC, et al. Design of information management system for large modular manned 
spacecraft. 2021 IEEE 16th conference on industrial electronics and applications (ICIEA). Piscataway: IEEE 


--- Page 35 ---
·34 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
34
Press; 2021.
36. Yang F, Liu SY, Zao J, et al. Technology prospective of intelligent remote sensing satellite. Spacecraft 
Engineering 2017; 26(5):74-5[Chinese].
37. Lei Y, Wang WP, Zhang HY, et al. Information system design of ZY-1-02D satellite. Spacecraft Engineering 
2020; 29(6):35-42[Chinese].
38. Lei Y, Tian HX, Yu LJ, et al. Research on the development and convergence of remote sensing satellite 
information system and space information network. Proceedings of the 8th annual conference on high resolution 
earth observation. 2022.
39. Wei Q, Liao Y, Shi M, et al. APSTAR-6D communication satellite system design and technology. Spacecraft 
Engineering 2022;31(1):10-17[Chinese].
40. Li F. China’s new generation of large geosynchronous orbit satellite public platform-DFH-5 satellite platform. 
Space International 2020;4:27-31[Chinese].
41. Song MM, Yang DZ, Shi HR, et al. STARNet: A deep-learning algorithm for surface shortwave radiation retrieval 
from fengyun-4A. Geophysical Research Letters 2025; 52(13): e2025GL116237.
[42] Yu YL, Jiang H, Cai JJ, et al. Analyses of Qianfan constellation coverage with respect to the ground users as of 
May 23, 2025. J Phys Conf Ser 2025; 3073(1):012006
[43] Yang YX, Gao WG, Guo SR, et al. Introduction to BeiDou-3 navigation satellite system. Navigation 
2019;66(1):7–18.
44. Jia WS, Zeng LL, Li LM, et al. Design of Beidou-3 satellite avionics system. Astronautical Systems Engineering 
Technology 2020;4(6):50-55[Chinese].
[45] Gong JG, Yu ZH, Wei R, et al. Design and realization of the integrated electronic system for the Chang’E-3 lunar 
rover. Sci Sin-Tech 2014;44(5):450-60.
46. Ye ZL, Gu M, Zhang CT. Design and verification of data management system of Chang’e-4 lander. Spacecraft 
Engineering 2019; 28(4):94-100[Chinese].
47. Wang LS, Yang M, Tu ZJ, et al. Design of integrated electronic system architecture for Chang’e-5 orbiter. 
Aerospace ShangHai 2022;39(S1):10-14[Chinese].
48. Jia Y, Tian H, Zhang TY. The autonomous function design of "Zhu rong" rover. Aerospace China 2021(6):19-
24[Chinese].
49. Bai ZG. Development achievements and prospects of China modern small satellite. Spacecraft Engineering 2019; 


--- Page 36 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 35 ·
28(2):1-8[Chinese].
[50] Tian SH, Li C, Zhao L, et al. Information processing technology of housekeeping subsystem for BJ-3A/B satellites. 
Spacecr Eng 2023;32(3):85-92 [Chinese].
51. Li ZG, Li JY, Li C, et al. Review and prospect of small satellite onboard housekeeping system. Spacecraft 
Engineering 2021;30(6):128-133[Chinese].
52. Chen ZS. Development analysis and technical prospect of space⁃based cross⁃domain intelligent swarm. 
Aerospace Electronic Warfare 2022; 38(1):1-5[Chinese].
[53] Wang RH, Taleb T, Jamalipour A, et al. Protocols for reliable data transport in space Internet. IEEE Commun 
Surv Tutor 2009;11(2):21–32.
[54] Hogie K, Criscuolo E, Parise R. Using standard Internet protocols and applications in space. Comput Netw 
2005;47(5):603-50.
[55] Jiao J, Zhang QY, Li H. An optimal ARQ timer design of file delivery time in CFDP NAK model. 2009 5th 
international conference on wireless communications, networking and mobile computing. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 
2009.
[56] Caini C, Cornice P, Firrincieli R, et al. A DTN approach to satellite communications. IEEE J Sel Areas Commun 
2008;26(5):820–7.
57. CCSDS.CAST flight software as a CCSDS onboard reference architecture. Washington, D.C.: Consultative 
committee for space data systems; 2021. Report No.:CCSDS 811.1-O-1.
[58] Zhang X, Yang Y, Xu MW, et al. ASER: Scalable distributed routing protocol for LEO satellite networks. 2021 
IEEE 46th conference on local computer networks (LCN). Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2021.
[59] Kopetz H. The rationale for time-triggered Ethernet. 2008 real-time systems symposium. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 
2008.
[60] Li J, Yao JG, Huang DS. Ethernet-based avionic databus and time-space partition switch design. J Commun Netw 
2015;17(3):286–95.
[61] Bello LL, Mariani R, Mubeen S, et al. Recent advances and trends in on-board embedded and networked 
automotive systems. IEEE Trans Ind Inform 2019;15(2):1038–51.
[62] Ashjaei M, Lo Bello L, Daneshtalab M, et al. Time-Sensitive Networking in automotive embedded systems: State 
of the art and research opportunities. J Syst Archit 2021;117:102137.
63. TSN Time Synchronization NASA’s Use Cases and Needs[Internet]. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics 


--- Page 37 ---
·36 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
36
and 
Space 
Administration.c2022[cited 
2025 
Nov 
15]. 
Available 
from: 
https://grouper.ieee.org/groups/802/1/files/public/docs2022/dp-donnelly-NASA-needs-0522-v00.pdf.
64. BAE Systems.RAD750 radiation-hardened PowerPC microprocessor[Internet]. [cited 2025 Nov 15]. Available 
from: 
https://www.baesystems.com/en-us/who-we-are/electronic-systems/c4isr/space-electronics#075d8771-
15f4-4e0f-bdb8-56d24e2be2fd.
[65] Li Y, Zhu XY, Zhang WG, et al. Design and verification of CPU for teaching based on sparc V8. 2013 fourth 
international conference on intelligent systems design and engineering applications. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 
2013.
66. ATMEL.Rad-hard 32-bit SPARC embedded processor, TSC695E[Internet]. [cited 2025 Nov 15]. Available from: 
https://pdf.dzsc.com/88889/26096.pdf.
[67] Guertin SM, Some R, Nsengiyumva P, et al. Radiation specification and testing of heterogenous microprocessor 
SOCs. 2019 19th European conference on radiation and its effects on components and systems (RADECS). 
Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2019.
68. Sjalander.com.Trondheim: LEON4: Fourth generation of the LEON processor[Internet]. [cited 2025 Nov 15]. 
Available from: https://sjalander.com/research/pdf/sialander-dasia2009.pdf.
[69] Schwaller B, Holtzman S, George AD. Emulation-based performance studies on the HPSC space processor. 2019 
IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2019.
70. Dahlia-h2020.eu [Internet].2022[cited 2025 Nov 15]. Available from: https://dahlia-h2020.eu.
[71] Petrick D, Espinosa D, Ripley R, et al. Adapting the reconfigurable spacecube processing system for multiple 
mission applications. 2014 IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2014.
[72] Schmidt AG, Weisz G, French M, et al. SpaceCubeX: A framework for evaluating hybrid multi-core 
CPU/FPGA/DSP architectures. 2017 IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2017.
73. Geist A, Brewer C, Davis M,et al. SpaceCube v3. 0 NASA next-generation high-performance processor for 
science applications. The 33rd Annual AIAA/USU conference on small satellites. Reston: AIAA; 2019. 
74. Brewer C G. SpaceCube v3. 0 mini: NASA next-generation data-processing system for advanced CubeSat 
applications. NASA electronic parts and packaging program (NEPP)2019 electronic technology workshop(ETW). 
Washington, D.C.: NASA;2019.
75. Hewlett Packard Enterprise: HPE Spaceborne Computer-2 returns to the international space station[Internet]. 
[cited 2024 Jan 30]. Available from: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240129331403/en/HPE-
Spaceborne-Computer-2-Returns-to-the-International-Space-Station.
[76] Zhang WH, Ma SC, Ji XL, et al. The development of general-purpose brain-inspired computing. Nat Electron 


--- Page 38 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 37 ·
2024;7:954-65.
[77] Chung C, Ward T, Dirgo B. Quantum computing use cases and impacts for the aerospace industry. 2025 IEEE 
aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2025.
[78] he YT, Ji XY, Zhao R, et al. A software reconfiguration method for CPU of satellite-board controller. Third 
international conference on testing technology and automation engineering (TTAE 2023). 2024.
79. An WY, Han XD, Wang C, et al. High-reliability satellite avionics system design using domestic chips. Spacecraft 
Engineering 2021;30(5):76-81[Chinese].
80. Beijing 
institute 
of 
microelectronics. 
Introduction 
to 
radiation-resistant 
eight-core 
processor 
BM3883MARH[Internet]. [cited 2025 Nov 15]. Available from: http://www.bime.ac.cn/bm3883marh[Chinese].
81. Aero-Chips: Introduction to high-performance embedded AI processor Yulong810A[Internet]. [cited 2025 Oct 
10]. Available from: https://www.myorbita.net/uploadfiles/2024/10/2024102316010919.pdf.
[82] Feather MS, Kennedy B, MacKey R, et al. Demonstrations of system-level autonomy for spacecraft. 2021 IEEE 
aerospace conference (50100). Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2021.
[83] Chen CJ, Yin YB, Yang J, et al. Design and implementation of avionic autonomous management system for deep 
space exploration. 2023 6th international symposium on autonomous systems (ISAS). Piscataway: IEEE Press; 
2023.
[84] Bernard DE, Dorais GA, Fry C, et al. Design of the remote agent experiment for spacecraft autonomy. 1998 IEEE 
aerospace conference proceedings. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 1998.
[85] Pell B, Bernard DE, Chien SA, et al. An autonomous spacecraft agent prototype. Auton Rob 1998;5(1):29–52.
[86] Li SJ, Zhang GG, Wang J. Civil aircraft health management research based on big data and deep learning 
technologies. 2017 IEEE international conference on prognostics and health management (ICPHM). Piscataway: 
IEEE Press; 2017.
[87] Rathsman P, Kugelberg J, Bodin P, et al. SMART-1: Development and lessons learnt. Acta Astronaut 2005;57(2–
8):455–68.
[88] Castano A, Fukunaga A, Biesiadecki J, et al. Automatic detection of dust devils and clouds on Mars. Mach Vis 
Appl 2008;19(5):467–82.
[89] Estlin T, Castano R, Bornstein B, et al. Automated targeting for the MER rovers. 2009 third IEEE international 
conference on space mission challenges for information technology. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2009.
[90] Francis R, Estlin T, Gaines D, et al. AEGIS autonomous targeting for the Curiosity rover’s ChemCam instrument. 


--- Page 39 ---
·38 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
38
2015 IEEE applied imagery pattern recognition workshop (AIPR). Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2015.
[91] Prokop LE, Dorney DJ, Feather MS, et al. Case studies in verifying spacecraft autonomy. 2021 IEEE aerospace 
conference (50100). Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2021.
[92] Bai LH, Yang H, Liang K. The research of autonomous in-orbit health management system for China’s manned 
spacecrafts. MATEC Web Conf 2019; 257:01006.
[93] Suo ML, Tao LF, Zhu BL, et al. Soft decision-making based on decision-theoretic rough set and Takagi-Sugeno 
fuzzy model with application to the autonomous fault diagnosis of satellite power system. Aerosp Sci Technol 
2020;106:106108.
[94] Chelmins D, Downey J, Johnson SK, et al. Unique challenges testing SDRs for space. 2013 IEEE aerospace 
conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2013.
[95] Darabseh A, Freris NM. A software-defined architecture for control of IoT cyberphysical systems. Clust Comput 
2019;22(4):1107–22.
96. Eutelsat.com[Internet]. [cited 2025 Oct 10]. Available from: https://www.eutelsat.com.
[97] Paillassa B, Morlet C. Flexible satellites: software radio in the sky. 10th international conference on 
telecommunications, 2003. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2003.
98. Thales-group.com[Internet]. 
[cited 
2025 
Oct 
10]. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.thalesgroup.com/en/worldwide/space/press-release/thales-alenia-space-releases-fully-digital-
satellite-address-fas.
[99] McKeown N, Anderson T, Balakrishnan H, et al. OpenFlow. SIGCOMM Comput Commun Rev 2008;38(2):69–
74.
100. Bao J, Zhao B, Yu W, et al. Open SAN: A software-defined satellite network architecture. Aem Sigcomm 
Computer Communication Review 2014,347-348.
[101] Hu GX, Li XH, Zhang GH. Research on space mosaic reconfigurable system based on MAS. 2021 IEEE 4th 
advanced information management, communicates, electronic and automation control conference (IMCEC). 
Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2021.
102. Space.skyrocket.de[Internet]. [cited 2025 Oct 10]. Available from: https://space.skyrocket.de/doc_sdat/gsky-
1.htm.
103. Li WH, Yang XN, Xu JL, et al. Software-defined satellite application in operationally responsive space. 
Spacecraft Engineering 2009;18(5):28-31[Chinese].


--- Page 40 ---
Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
· 39 ·
[104] Lin YJ, Hu JX, Li L, et al. Design and implementation of on-orbit valuable image extraction for the TianZhi-1 
satellite. 2019 IEEE 14th international conference on intelligent systems and knowledge engineering (ISKE). 
Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2019.
105. Krebs, Gunter D. Tianzhi 2D[Internet]. [cited 2025 Oct 10].Available from: https://space.skyrocket.de/doc_sdat/
tianzhi-2d.htm.
106. Xing ZY, Zhu SJ, Huang XF, et al. Design on software-defined spacecraft system architecture. Spacecraft 
Engineering 2021;30(5):1-8[Chinese].
[107] Fenech H, Amos S, Waterfield T. The role of array antennas in commercial telecommunication satellites. 2016 
10th European conference on antennas and propagation (EuCAP).Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2016.
[108] Chien WC, Lai CF, Hossain MS, et al. Heterogeneous space and terrestrial integrated networks for IoT: 
Architecture and challenges. IEEE Netw 2019;33(1):15-21.
[109] Yan L, Cao SZ, Gong YS, et al. SatEC: A 5G satellite edge computing framework based on microservice 
architecture. Sensors 2019;19(4):831.
110. Bao WM, Wang XW. Develop highly reliable and low-cost technology for access to space, embrace the new 
space economy era. Aerospace China 2019; 20(4):23-30.
111. Bennett T, Cain C, Campbell N, et al. Engineering the cislunar economic system based on ULA's CisLunar-1000 
vision. AIAA SPACE 2016 conference and exposition. Red Hook: Curran Associates, Inc.; 2016.p.1-21.
[112] Israel DJ, Mauldin KD, Roberts CJ, et al. LunaNet: A flexible and extensible lunar exploration communications 
and navigation infrastructure. 2020 IEEE aerospace conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2020.
113. P. Giordano, A. Grenier, P. Zoccarato, et al. Moonlight navigation service-how to land on peaks of eternal light. 
Proceedings of the 72nd international astronautical congress(IAC). Paris: IAF Press; 2021.p.25-29.
[114] Mangialardo M, Jurado MM, Hagan D, et al. Autonomous navigation for moon missions: A realistic performance 
assessment, considering earth GNSS signals and LCNS constellation. 2022 10th workshop on satellite navigation 
technology (NAVITEC). Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2022.
115. Qiao L, Li CH, Wang SP, et al. Cislunar cloud network: The cross-domain integrated cislunar-spatial network. 
Chinese Space Science and Technology 2024;44(3):43-50[Chinese].
116. Zhou HC, Zheng JJ, Wang HH, et al. Construction and transfer of space-based spatial-temporal reference in earth-
moon space. Chinese Space Science and Technology 2024;44(3):51-59[Chinese].
[117] Littlefield-Lawwill J, Viswanathan R. Advancing open standards in integrated modular avionics: An industry 
analysis. 2007 IEEE/AIAA 26th digital avionics systems conference. Piscataway: IEEE Press; 2007.


--- Page 41 ---
·40 ·
 Chinese Journal of Aeronautics
40
[118] Gaska T, Watkin C, Chen Y. Integrated modular avionics-past, present, and future. IEEE Aerosp Electron Syst 
Mag 2015;30(9):12-23.
Declaration of Interest Statement
☒ The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in 
this paper.
☐ The author is an Editorial Board Member/Editor-in-Chief/Associate 
Editor/Guest Editor for this journal and was not involved in the editorial review or 
the decision to publish this article.
☐ The authors declare the following financial interests/personal relationships 
which may be considered as potential competing interests: 
